188 Dig It
Unsurprisingly, Dig It takes the lowest spot as a Beatles original. It feels like a bit of a stretch to call this a proper song, as Dig It is an excerpt taken from a longer jam during the Get Back sessions. While the jamming session shows the band having a fun time, this “song” doesn’t quite shine on the album. It offers little in musicality, structure or lyrics. Just a bit of fun, nothing more and nothing less.


187 For You Blue
For You Blue is a Harrisong, and not a bad one. However, it suffers in this ranking from not bringing much in any department, to be honest. The lyrics are not up to Harrison’s standards, the music is fairly common, “them old 12-bar blues”. Even though we can enjoy this song for what it is, it’s not the band’s best effort. The actual sound of this song is also not up to the Beatles’ standards.


186 I Wanna Be Your Man
The Beatles originally gave this song to the Rolling Stones, but they later tackled it themselves with Ringo on lead vocals. It has some energy, and it’s over before the 2 minute mark. A good listen, but musically it’s not that interesting.


185 Little Child
Little Child is an upbeat song, with the highlight being a great little scream right before the harmonica solo. The lyrics are rather bad, especially in retrospect. Even when viewing the song in context, we’re left with rather low quality words on this fun song.


184 Love Me Do
A charming song from start to finish, Love Me Do worked well as The Beatles’ first single. Lennon’s harmonica gives some points for originality, as it wasn’t a popular instrument in rock ‘n roll. It’s an iconic song at this point, and rightly so, but musically it leaves a bit to be desired, knowing the rest of the band’s output.
Depending on the version, you might hear Ringo or Andy White (a session musician) drumming. The end result, however, is pretty much the same.


183 Misery
Misery is the first song on this list to give us some interesting lyrics. Although still basic, it’s a step up from “I love you, baby” material. Appearing on their debut album, it’s an often overlooked song with strong vocal performances and a small yet fitting touch from George Martin, the producer who was a big part in The Beatles’ success. That descending piano lifts the song up. Misery was the first song from The Beatles to get covered, so it can also boast that feat.


182 I'll Get You
Oh yeah! I’ll Get You mostly shines in its vocals. Most of these early Beatles songs are wont to lack a bit in the bass department. The bridge stands out, especially with the singing once again. As B-side to She Loves You, this side will have had considerably less playtime, and we can only agree with that.


181 Wild Honey Pie
Wild Honey Pie is the first track from their self-titled album The Beatles (better known as the White Album) to appear on the list. Some people love Wild Honey Pie, others hate it. It’s Paul doing Paul stuff. It sounds like an experimentation that could’ve easily ended up on McCartney I, the album, instead of the White Album, but here it is. Experimental, sure. Other than that, it’s probably nobody’s favorite Beatles song, and that’s saying something.


180 I Should Have Known Better
A Hard Day’s Night is a very strong early Beatles record, and has a consistent quality. Despite this song being very high (or low?) up in the list, there is nothing wrong with this song, and it’s a great listen. More harmonica, a solid (albeit basic) guitar solo and more of those great Lennon vocals. If this is the weakest song on A Hard Day’s Night, it’s a very good album indeed.


179 Hold Me Tight
It’s an easy trick, but it works so well. The handclaps in combination with solid drumming (Ringo doing some great fills!) give this song the energy it needs. The call and response bit screams classic Beatles.


178 I'll Cry Instead
A noticeable shift in tone from some earlier songs, Lennon sings about people better hiding their girls because he’ll break their hearts in two over what’s basically a country song.
On the album, it’s one of the more forgettable tracks, but on closer listen it’s a solid song for A Hard Day’s Night.


177 P.S. I Love You
P.S. I Love You highlights the group’s strength as singers. This was the B-side to Love Me Do, their first single, and thus also has Andy White on drums, instead of everyone’s favourite percussionist Ringo. A catchy song, which has McCartney’s fingerprints all over it.


176 You Like Me Too Much
The Help! album makes an appearance on this list. An early Harrisong, You Like Me Too Much is still a far cry from songs like While My Guitar Gently Weeps or Something, but it still offers interesting bits and pieces while remaining fun to listen to. Relatively new to songwriting, Harrison was fast growing into a great force of music!


175 Don't Pass Me By
The first song solely written by Ringo Starr, Don’t Pass Me By is an extremely charming country song, with Jack Fallon providing an amazing violin part. The song is basic, but that’s the charm of it. Ringo pulls it off with a great vocal performance in his own right. We couldn’t imagine the White Album without this gem.


174 Don't Bother Me
From Ringo’s first (solo) composition, we go right into Harrison’s. Don’t Bother Me was written on bed rest, and we don’t have to guess what Harrison’s feelings were at the time. Lyrically uncharacteristic for The Beatles at the time, but foreshadowing much of Harrison’s later work in tone.


173 She's a Woman
She’s a Woman introduces an interesting element, with the offbeat guitar. However, it does sound a bit harsh to the ears sometimes and it hurts the instrumentation of the song.
The vocal performance on this song is very McCartney, and that can’t ever be a bad thing.


172 The Night Before
The Night Before does a lot of things right. The best part of it, however, must be the percussion. The drums during the bridge (last night is the night I will remember you by…), and especially leaving that bridge, are classic Ringo and we can’t say a bad word about it.


171 Another Girl
Back to back Help! tracks. This one features prominent guitar work from Harrison. But taking the cake this song is the vocal performance. The harmonies are classic Beatles and remain timeless.


170 Not a Second Time
George Martin on the piano is usually a recipe for greatness. Producing this song, he inserted an instrumental break after the first part, and it works really well. It allows us to catch our breath before we go into the rest of the song. The drumming on this track is, once more, adding a lot to the song.


169 What Goes On
Rubber Soul makes its introduction on this list with this track. What Goes On, written primarily by Lennon and McCartney but credited to Lennon-McCartney-Starkey, sounds like a country song and derives most of its charm from Ringo’s singing. Being backed by two of the greatest singers in popular music, Ringo still holds his own on this track and gives a great performance.


168 I Need You
We’re firm believers that you can never have enough cowbell in a song. Now, that might be a detail in this early Harrisong, but, damn it, you really can never have enough cowbell in a song.
Harrison uses a volume pedal to create a very distinct and recurring guitar part for this song.


167 Why Don't We Do It in the Road
If asked what your favourite song is about monkeys fornicating in the streets of India, this is surely a top pick. Granted, we can’t think of many other songs, but that’s kind of the point. This little tune repeats the title phrase over and over, and it’s McCartney’s singing that gives it its relatively weak placement on this list. The man with a thousand voices indeed.


166 Can't Buy Me Love
Can’t Buy Me Love is an amazing track from A Hard Day’s Night. It boasts great singing, energy and a solid solo. It honestly baffled us that it’s this low on the list. Sure, the lyrics leave a lot to be desired, but surely this is a great song, isn’t it? Well, it is. But we found 165 better songs, according to the numbers. Sometimes, a great track just can’t be put into words, or numbers…


165 Baby's in Black
A song from the often underrated Beatles For Sale. Baby’s in Black is mostly a win because of the outstanding vocals. Other than that, we have some nice percussion going on, and a rare time signature (for The Beatles) of 6/8. The guitar solo, however, feels a bit lackluster. Overall still a very enjoyable song to listen to. When The Beatles let their voices blend, the result is always magical (but not always a mystery tour).


164 I Don't Want to Spoil the Party
Back to back Beatles For Sale. And both songs actually get the same score in our list. This one seems fairly insignificant at first glance, at least that was the case for us. However, it gains momentum the more you listen to it. The lyrics are interesting, and very Lennon at the time. A rather forgotten song from a rather forgotten album, this one definitely deserves more play time!


163 I'm Down
McCartney loves using his rock ‘n roll voice, and in this song, he wields it like a sledgehammer. This is the type of voice that got him in the band originally, and he proves he can use it whenever he wants. Lennon just sounds like he’s having the time of his life on the electric organ, but it doesn’t make for the best solo in their catalogue. All in all, this song has a cool foundation, but it doesn’t quite reach its full potential. The bellowing vocals save it from a worse rating.


162 You're Going to Lose That Girl
If you’re going to lose that girl, you might as well do it in style. The percussion in this song doesn’t take the foreground (Ringo rarely does), and yet it adds so much to the song. When The Beatles went on television with Morecambe and Wise, one of the best moments was when Morecambe called out “Hello Bongo!” to Ringo. Now, he wasn’t far off. The man plays the bongos with the proper flair.
We recommend looking up that appearance. There’s some great banter going back and forth, and The Beatles are nothing if not funny.


161 Good Day Sunshine
Good Day Sunshine evokes feelings of spring, joyfulness and generally good vibes. Despite being (one of) the worst track(s) on Revolver, it still deserves its spot on the album for sure. It keeps the listener interested, both rhythmically and melodically. Little touches, like the descending piano, keep it upbeat and fun to hear.


160 There's a Place
A regularly underrated song, There’s a Place is on the debut album, but sounds more mature than most of the other songs there. Great singing, good playing, solid lyrics (at that stage in their career), what’s not to like? For us, anything in this time period that doesn’t involve a “you”, a “me” and a lot of “I love you”, is already a big plus, but these lyrics actually add up to something quite decent.


159 I'm Happy Just to Dance With You
We’re just happy to have George Harrison singing, even if it’s not a song he wrote himself. Harrison singing usually means two amazing things: we get great lead vocals, and we get amazing backing vocals from McCartney and Lennon. This song checks both boxes.
The song itself might not be the highlight of their musical career, but it’s still fun and upbeat.


158 Flying
The only instrumental song in their official catalogue, Flying is featured on the Magical Mystery Tour (EP or LP, depending which side of that line you stand on). It starts off with some great atmosphere building, before the voices kick in to lift it up.
The song ends with a seemingly random collection of noises and sounds, which makes perfect sense, considering it’s on the Magical Mystery Tour, arguably their “weirdest” album, full of experimentation and psychedelia.
In our opinion, the song Flying definitely landed.


157 I Call Your Name
Ringo has always been the backbone of the band. He’s an amazingly creative and original drummer-percussionist. People saying he’s a bad drummer simply haven’t taken the effort to listen closely to what Ringo is contributing to the band.
This song is a great example. By no means an extraordinary song, I Call Your Name shines mostly because of Ringo. The cowbell, first of all, but mostly the change of rhythm in the bridge, gives the song something special. The drums become even more important since the solo itself is nothing to write home about.


156 Any Time at All
This song draws you in from the first snare hit. It’s a fast paced song, with an amazing instrumental bridge. Harrison adds a lot to the song with his guitar solo, making it one of the most pleasing solos we’ve heard so far on this list. Any Time at All does nothing exceptional, but it does just about everything right.


155 I'm a Loser
This marks the start of their growth at writing lyrics that elevate songs, and not just talk about loving some girl or feeling blue. Lennon reveals his inner insecurities by saying he’s a loser. This type of brutal honesty and self-reflection would become the staple of his solo career (‘Mother’, ‘Jealous Guy’, ‘Isolation’)
His first dive into this kind of subject results in a great song for the Beatles For Sale album. The song gets even better by having some quite low notes sung by Lennon.
This is the last song to feature a Lennon harmonica solo. An instrument they reached for quite a bit in the early days (and will still return less regularly), but they are slowly starting to outgrow their early sound. It would still be a few albums before they really get into their amazing stuff, but we hear snippets of it already, and I’m a Loser definitely has those.


154 Thank You Girl
Since this song was written for the female fans, we’re feeling kind of left out. But we forgive them, and we appreciate the song that is Thank You Girl.
It’s a song that leans mostly on a great vocal performance and, again, solid, solid drumming from Ringo. Additional props to the harmonica ending.


153 You've Got to Hide Your Love Away
Nowhere is the Bob Dylan influence more obvious than this song. You’ve Got to Hide Your Love Away is a masterclass in folk rock. It sounds great, the vocal delivery is on point and the flute section gives a surprising turn to the song. A strong song on the Help! album.


152 Tell Me What You See
There are many little things that make this song a great one. The electric piano, for example, really adds to the song without being too much. The harmonies really shine here as well. The percussion does exactly what it needs to do. All of this does tie it up into a very neat song indeed.


151 Every Little Thing
“Every little thing she does… BAM BAM” The use of the tampani in this song gives it a hook that’ll stick with you. Great use of a different instrument in these early days to enhance a song, something they would perfect in just a few years’ time.
The song just sounds really good, and it’s definitely an oft forgotten song from the For Sale album that could use a bit more love. Just over 2 minutes, it’s short but sweet.


150 One After 909
An anomaly in The Beatles chronology since this song was written before their recording career began and yet only made it onto their final album (not the last album recorded, but the last album to come out). For the Get Back sessions (the later Let It Be album), they wanted to go back to their roots, and what better way than to pick up an old, previously unreleased song?
Interestingly, we have recordings (on Anthology 1) of this song way back when. It’s fascinating to compare it to the Let It Be version.
It really shows how much they’ve learned in all those years. The Anthology version is a great rocker, no doubt, but they’ve upped their game (and got Billy Preston to play with them) since then and One After 909 on Let It Be is the superior version. Makes you think what some other songs would’ve sounded like if they re-recorded them in the late 60s.


149 From Me to You
A very early number 1 hit from The Beatles, From Me to You has all the ingredients to be an early Beatles top song. It has great singing, catchy melodies, the classic use of their screaming-inducing “ooh”, and Lennon’s harmonica. It’s great they did this, but we’re glad they eventually moved on from all this as well. A perfect time capsule from 1963.


148 Tell Me Why
It feels very repetitive to keep saying this, but the vocals on this song are amazing. The harmonies that Harrison, McCartney and Lennon produce are downright magical. Even in a song that isn’t particularly great or outstanding. It automatically lifts the song up.
While being a solid addition to A Hard Day’s Night, this song has my least favorite line in all the Beatles’ catalogue (yes, including Revolution 9). The way the three lads sing “Is there anything that I can do?” in their highest of high voices is… let's just say I’m not the biggest fan of that. Nitpicking aside, this one's an actual rocker that keeps its energy from start to finish.


147 It's All Too Much
Another psychedelic song from Harrison, this time on the Yellow Submarine soundtrack album. Strange sounds, plenty of fade-ins and outs, a playtime over 6 minutes. It has a lot going on to keep it interesting, but it definitely won’t be for everyone. It feels more like an acid trip than an attempt at writing a pop song. If you can get in the mood for it, it’s a great one. If you can’t, you’ll sit there enduring a long, rather monotonous 6 minutes. Whichever side of the fence you find yourself on, you have to respect their unquenchable thirst for experimentation.


146 Birthday
A song mostly written on the spot and recorded that same day, Birthday is not a song known for its depth or complexity. Instead, it earns its stripes with bellowing vocals, an energetic drum performance and just rocking hard. The guitars sound excellent on this recording.
We even get some Beatles girlfriends/wives on this recording, with Yoko Ono and Pattie Boyd contributing backing vocals.
All in all, a solid rocker, but far from the most interesting song on the White Album.


145 What You're Doing
What You’re Doing (and not, What’s That You’re Doing, an excellent McCartney solo song with the legendary Stevie Wonder) starts with energetic drum parts, followed by some clean sounding guitars.
The backing vocals on this song pack a real punch. Strongly emphasising the first word of every line combined with gentle humming.
A fun little moment around 1:04 sounds like Lennon missed the mark and was going to sing “I” as backings instead of “you”. Whatever it is, it’s a funny detail we noticed.
How great the vocals are, that’s how lackluster the guitar solo sounds. It’s not Harrison’s greatest effort on this album. Still all in all, a very enjoyable, energetic and sweet sounding song, often forgotten in the latter half of the For Sale album.


144 Run for Your Life
Let’s first address the elephant in the room. Yes, these lyrics are quite different from what we’re used to from our dear Beatles. A lot has been written and said about them, but you know what? We like them. Obviously it’s not an autobiographical song (at least not in the literal sense), and Lennon pulls off the singing well enough to make the lyrics work. It’s an upbeat song, with great backing vocals and the lyrics keep you interested.
We do question the placement of this song. It’s a good song, but finishing Rubber Soul… It seems there were better options to have that honor.


143 It Won't Be Long
This is the song that kicks off The Beatles’ second studio album ‘With The Beatles’, and oh boy, what an opener. We get straight into the thick of it. Once again, the backings and overall vocal performances are top tier. It really doesn’t require any rocket science to see why these guys made it to the top so quickly. Even barring all their songwriting abilities, their voices just blend so well together and can both pack a lot of punch and be incredibly sweet.
This song is the perfect example of that. We love the (trademark) call and response, although here it’s lyrically simple (yeah - yeah, yeah - yeah…). It works anyway.
‘With The Beatles’ couldn’t have had a more fitting opening song!


142 When I Get Home
This song has some very interesting drums. Besides just rocking in general and some great fills, you wouldn’t think much of them. However, Ringo does something very interesting every time they do the little build-up. Who-oh-oh-ah. On the ‘ah’, listen closely. He doesn’t quite hit his kick and crash at the same time. There’s a little difference in timing, which makes it much more dynamic. And you wouldn’t even notice unless you paid attention, but your brain noticed it.
Besides the percussion, this is a classic Hard Day’s Night track. Lennon sings about things to tell his wife when he gets home (wonder what those could’ve been…)


141 I'll Be Back
We’re big fans of A Hard Day’s Night (the album, not the movie [well, maybe the movie too but that’s hardly relevant!]), and I’ll Be Back was a bold choice to end the album. Not quite the rocker like Twist and Shout or Money (That’s What I Want). It’s a rather unusual song, lacking a traditional chorus. The guitar work is phenomenal, by the way. Sonically, a beautiful song.


140 Eight Days a Week
Often credited as the best song on Beatles For Sale (a sentiment we do not necessarily agree with), or as the only good song on For Sale (which we couldn’t disagree more on), Eight Days a Week is a very solid and catchy tune. The handclaps are iconic and add so much to the song.
It was the first time they took an unfinished song into the studio. We now see The Beatles as a studio band mostly, working on their material over the course of days, weeks, months… This marked the start of that.


139 It's Only Love
More experimentation during the Help! recording sessions. Harrison’s guitar sounds quite different from what we’re used to and gives the song a unique spin. Lennon delivers a great vocal performance. The lyrics left a lot of room for improvement, however. There’s worse in their catalogue, but there’s definitely better, and we would expect a bit better from Lennon at this time.
In the end, it’s a fun little tune that works as a great example of Lennon’s amazing vocal abilities.


138 The Long and Winding Road
One of McCartney’s masterpieces, for sure. The Long and Winding Road can boast a highly interesting chord progression, strong lyrics and is just a great piece of music. It’s been discussed time and time again how Phil Spector handled this song, some saying he wrecked it (Paul himself is in this camp), others saying it’s a great production. Our rating will have the former people agreeing with it. While we both feel like there are still redeemable things about it, we gave this song a rare “hurts the song” in the instrumentation category. Deserved or not? We’ll leave that up to you.


137 All My Loving
What a catchy and upbeat song! All My Loving is an amazing song from the With The Beatles album. There’s just nothing bad to say about this song, honestly. Both the lead singing and the backup singing do what they need to do, Lennon plays one of the best rhythm guitars we’ve ever heard, which also makes this song instantly recognisable.
While most early songs don’t score high on the bass rating, this is an exception. Both the bass and percussion add a lot of value to this song, and it shows!


136 You Can't Do That
Have we mentioned yet how much we love cowbells? Go Ringo!
Imagine buying a single and it has Can’t Buy Me Love as the A-side and You Can’t Do That as a B-side. That’s money well spent! This song just rocks out, pure and simple. It sounds great, the vocals are just full of outstanding moments, the cowbell bops (if that’s what cowbells do).
Shout out to George Harrison as well for coming up with the intro and outro guitar lick. Teamwork paying off on this one!


135 Blue Jay Way
There’s the well known story of Harrison waiting for a friend (who was lost in the LA streets because of the fog) and starting to write a song. The result: one of the most psychedelic songs to date. Blue Jay Way finds itself on the Magical Mystery Tour album (or EP), which is extremely fitting. This is a love-it-or-hate-it song, and we’ve heard plenty of people on both sides of the fence.
Either way, you can’t help but admire the originality of this song. During this period, Harrison was using keyboards more than a guitar to write his songs, and you can’t imagine this song ever being made if he didn’t do that.
We have to mention Ringo’s drumming in this song, which adds a lot to the atmosphere Harrison is trying to create. Top stuff!


134 Her Majesty
Simultaneously one of the most significant and least significant songs of The Beatles. It’s the shortest Beatles track, at 23 seconds. It’s just Paul playing guitar and singing a little song about the Queen. Sure, the lyrics are cute, but there’s really nothing to suggest this is actually a very significant song for The Beatles. And yet it is.
First of all, it’s the world’s first hidden track on an album. After being thrown out of the Abbey Road Medley, engineers put the song way at the end of the tape (because EMI policy was to never throw any Beatles recording away). It accidentally remained there and when noticed, was kept in as a fun surprise for the fans.
But more than that, it’s the final song of the final (recorded) album of The Beatles. Most people consider Let It Be to be their final album (by release), but Abbey Road was actually the last album they recorded in the studio. To many people, that makes it their final album, and this the very end of their recording career. The End… followed by Her Majesty. A small, almost non-song that got way bigger than it ever ought to have been.
Pretty though.


133 Do You Want to Know a Secret
This song starts with an uncommon (and old-fashioned) separate intro, before going into the first verse. It’s Harrison singing, but it’s a (mostly) Lennon composition. It has some very eerie backing vocals in the later verses, mostly due to the heavy reverb.
Overall this track has a great vibe, with excellent singing and great instrumentation. This is a very strong track for their debut album.
Lennon had the wishing well song from Snow White in mind while writing this, a movie which is (just an FYI) closing in on 90 years old in 2026. You particularly notice this in the opening lyrics.


132 I Want to Hold Your Hand
The song that made them in the United States. Their first number one hit there, and a massive hit all over the world to be honest. In the UK it was only outsold by She Loves You (the best and second-best selling single from the 60s). So, does the song still hold up?
Of course it does. The energy is killer, the handclaps are still iconic, the singing is classic Beatles.
This song changed the face of Western popular music. It inspired people like Bob Dylan (he famously misheard “I can’t hide” as “I get high”), Brian Wilson and many, many others. It paved the way for their international stardom. But most of all, it’s just a great, great track.


131 Things We Said Today
A great performance by McCartney on this track. The consistent quality on A Hard Day’s Night is crazy. It’s full of songs like these, that just zoom from start to finish. This one gets more interesting because of some nicely timed acoustic rhythm guitar. Other than that, it’s not a track that stands out on a first listen, but gets better and better over time.


130 Only a Northern Song
Only a Northern Song is a Harrison original, and stands out from most other Beatles songs. Some would argue it’s one of the worst out there, but the creativity on this track has to score some points at least. The lyrics are another highlight, filled with the kind of biting humor only Harrison could deliver. We even slightly prefer the Anthology version.


129 A Hard Day's Night
Much can be said about this particular song. It’s even surprising this doesn’t crack the top 100, but that’s just a credit to their craft as songwriters.
The opening chord has been talked about more than some songs in their entirety. Hell, it even has its separate section on the song’s Wikipedia! Great start to the song (and the album).
But much less has been talked about the stellar performance by Ringo! (There are never enough cowbells in a song). The bongos really add a great touch to the rhythm and are an amazing addition without being too noticeable. It was also thanks to Ringo the phrase “A Hard Day’s Night” came into existence.
But all the legend and stories aside, it’s just a straight up banging rock ‘n roll tune that doesn’t tire after repeated listening.


128 Ask Me Why
This song screams coziness, mostly because of the harmonies. The Beatles definitely didn’t miss their start with Please Please Me. Talk about a debut album! If you go look at the actual track list, it’s full of great original songs, and some banging covers. This original might not have the most inspired lyrics, it is nonetheless a song we could never tire of.
Ask Me Why pops even a bit more if you look at the very interesting chord structure. Not bad at all!


127 I've Just Seen a Face
McCartney put his stamp on Help! in more than one way. Much less iconic and less well known than Yesterday, we have I’ve Just Seen a Face, in which McCartney uses his singing in a very interesting and rhythmic way. Often described as Folk Rock, this fast-paced song appeared on Rubber Soul for the American Release, as the opening track no less. Whether you agree with that, it certainly helped with Rubber Soul’s popularity.
The acoustic solo also lifts the song and fits the energy perfectly. A great piece of early McCartney!


126 Please Please Me
The Beatles are number 1! Of course, we know this now, and they scored the number 1 on many a chart in their days and even afterwards, but it had to start somewhere, didn’t it? Well, Please Please Me takes the extraordinary honor of being The Beatles’ very first number 1. It was the starting point of a long stretch of hits.
And from the very start, George Martin was there in perfect cooperation. Written a fair bit slower, it was Martin who suggested to Lennon to speed this one up. Add amazing singing, great drumming and the necessary energy and the result is history.


125 She Loves You
No other song exudes energy like this one does. Recorded while fans were in the studio trying to find The Beatles, the four lads from Liverpool definitely put the excitement in this record! It was their best selling UK single, and one of the biggest hits ever. She Loves You is pretty much the perfect early-Beatles song, with a top performance from all of them, including a stellar - and at this point iconic! - drum line!
This song being ranked “only” at 125, feels pretty close to sacrilege. But rest assured that we treasure this song very, very much.


124 All I've Got to Do
We hope it’s not getting old, but we need to praise Ringo once more. Listen to how he tackled this particular song with his drumming. He is the definition of restraint, knowing what the song needs and giving exactly that. Beautiful.
The other ingredients for this track are amazing, blending vocals - both a strong lead and great backings - and a very cool fade-out ending with a humming John Lennon.


123 Mean Mr. Mustard
One of Lennon’s contributions for the Abbey Road Medley. While generally McCartney’s songs are the highlights of the medley, this is still a very strong track. Only being a minute long, it’s hard to see as one separate song, but if we do, it at least goes to a nice “finish” with the change in rhythm. The lyrics can make you chuckle on occasion.
This was supposed to have been followed up by Her Majesty, but they changed it later on, which explains the hard cut into Polythene Pam.


122 I'll Follow the Sun
For a long time, I used to think this was a cover. It’s such a pretty song on the vastly underrated Beatles for Sale. It’s a song that shows just what McCartney was capable of, even at such a young age. This feels like very mature songwriting.
Harrison adds to the atmosphere with his guitar and Lennon provides hauntingly beautiful harmony vocals. Ringo and the band were always looking for ways to make each song sound different. How they tackled that in this song was for Ringo to tap his knees instead of his drumkit. It gives this song a great soft and warm percussion sound. It’s so logical in hindsight, but thinking of that at the time shows they were in a creative frame of mind.


121 I Feel Fine
At the risk of sounding like a broken record, we can only lament that this amazing rocker doesn’t make the top 100. It makes you wonder what other 120 songs even exist to beat this one. Our gut feeling rates this much higher, but this is where I Feel Fine ended up in our file. And it definitely has much going for it!
The drumming is out of this world for this track. It lends an energy to the song that is hard to match. (just listen to him joining back in from 1:20 onwards) The singing, as usual, is mesmerising with Lennon using a very small hint of hoarseness at times.
The greatest asset, of course, is the killer riff!


120 Old Brown Shoe
Old Brown Shoe is one of the two songs where we completely changed our mind, working on this project. Before coming into this, we both thought nothing much of this song, and whenever people talked about it being overrated, we just raised an eyebrow and failed to see the charm in this one.
But listening very closely has revealed much more there than we gave it credit for.
The biggest surprise was the bassline. What a banger from McCartney!
There’s plenty more elements that make this a great Harrison track; from the very solid solo to the instrumentation. There is much more than meets the eye.
This song sparked one of our biggest disagreements during the whole process as well. The effect put onto the vocal was very well received by one, and not so much by the other.


119 I'm Looking Through You
I’m Looking Through You is one of those Beatles songs that just does everything right. The instrumentation, the playing, the singing, the lyrics, all of it just falls into place. Written about his then-girlfriend Jane Asher, we shouldn’t be surprised their love didn’t make it in the long run. But we did get this amazing track out of it.
A highlight is definitely Harrison’s guitar work, which gives a rather warm and soft sounding song a bit of a harder edge.


118 Doctor Robert
Before diving into this song, we have to come clean: the placement of this song on the album, following For No One, is kinda wild. It’s made this song into a bit of a running joke for us. However, don’t let that fool you into thinking this is a weak song by any means. Doctor Robert - a new and better man - is a song obviously about drugs. That in itself doesn’t change anything about the musicality of the song, which is of a high quality. Both the instruments and the singing show their mastery of the craft at this time. In different hands, this song might’ve turned out a bit more mediocre.


117 All Together Now
The Beatles - a children’s song? Well, sure, according to McCartney. Like Yellow Submarine, there are plenty of sounds, instruments and sound effects going on, which makes it sound a lot of fun to record and to listen to.
Nothing too complicated, of course, but the increase in tempo works wonders, as do the multiple background singers.
This is a fun song, first and foremost, and it mainly deserves its high ranking because of the wonderful instrumentation and sound effects.


116 You Know My Name (Look Up the Number)
This song was the B-side to Let It Be, their last released single (within the band’s lifetime). It’s an odd collection of variations on a single line which reads - you guessed it - ‘You know my name, look up the number’, something Lennon saw in a phonebook. They jammed on it on several occasions and in the end frankensteined this wonderfully fun single. It symbolises perfectly who these four friends and musicians really were; a bunch of jokers, albeit wildly talented ones. Next to their musicianship, it was mostly their wit, charm and humour that launched them into stardom. Even near the end of their partnership, when things weren’t always pleasant between them, all tension disappeared when they stepped up to play music together. No other song shows this better than this strange, strange piece of music.
And boy, are we glad it exists. Our personal favorite starts around the 3-minute mark, when the piano starts the final variation. It’s got a great vibe, and hilarious voices. Classic Beatles!


115 I Saw Her Standing There
One, two, three, four! The Beatles kicked off their first album with a banger! I Saw Her Standing There is an iconic song that still holds up easily today. It has great handclaps, a screaming McCartney, strong vocals, a fast paced driving bassline… Basically everything it needs to make this a classic early Beatles record.
For us Beatles fans, this song is an icon, nothing less… For us, it IS the Beatles, and I’ll never dance with another!


114 Polythene Pam
A short song as it’s part of the Abbey Road medley, Polythene Pam is a Lennon concoction. The lyrics talk about a good-looking woman, but she looks like a man. Not wholly unlike Loretta who thought she was a woman, but she was another man. Whatever they’re trying to say, the lyrics flow well at least.
The percussion, however, is much clearer to us. It’s killer-diller and carries the song with high energy!
The guitar at the end makes for a great outro for this rather short song. But the best moment is probably around 0:46 with the ‘hey, great!’. That’s just… well, great!


113 If I Fell
If I Fell is an early ballad in the Lennon-McCartney catalogue, although primarily written by Lennon.
It’s remarkable mostly because of its tender and beautiful harmonic singing by both Lennon and McCartney. The chord structure for this song also shows their evolving skills as songwriters.
A personal favorite moment in the song, however, is the slight “mistake” around 1:44, where McCartney’s voice sort of peters out. It’s details like this that make us appreciate their songs so much. Sometimes a little imperfection makes the song into even more than it already was.


112 Yes It Is
George Harrison is often underrated as a guitar player. This song shows him experimenting fairly early on with a volume pedal, to very successful results. The sound he created for this song gives it a very unique character.
Add the great lead vocals by Lennon and the harmonic backing vocals, and the final result is a mesmerising piece of music. The atmosphere carries the song from the first note until the very last, with a beautiful guitar outro.


111 If I Needed Someone
Rubber Soul is widely regarded as one of their best albums, (although arguably that could be stated about just any of them) and there’s good reason for that. Rubber Soul is full of beautiful songs that make you all warm and fuzzy inside. If I Needed Someone is one of the two songs on the album written by George Harrison, and it shows his rapidly increasing songwriting craft. Only starting writing music recently (his first song was Don’t Bother Me from the With The Beatles album), he was making great strides as a songwriter. Just listen to this gorgeous tune, with rich guitar tones, amazing harmonies and all-round great melodic singing.
It’s easy to see in hindsight that Harrison was shaping up to be a songwriter equal to Lennon and McCartney, and that this song is a clear sign he wasn’t far behind at the time of recording Rubber Soul. Unfortunately it took millions of people, including Lennon, McCartney and George Martin a long time to see that. For some, it came as late as Abbey Road, for others even later with All Things Must Pass or Living in the Material World. For others still, Lennon and McCartney still occupy a spot above Harrison. Whatever may be, If I Needed Someone deserves all the praise it gets, and is a highlight on the Rubber Soul album.


110 She Said She Said
Most Beatles fans know the story about Peter Fonda and him saying he knows what it’s like to be dead at a party, so we’ll go in a different direction. Let’s listen to the standout drumming on this song! It switches gears, it has a great groove, it brings exciting fills to the song… What a performance by Ringo, that can’t be overstated!
Interestingly, this is one of only a handful of Beatles songs that doesn’t feature McCartney. It was the last song being recorded for Revolver and there was an argument in the studio which resulted in McCartney leaving the session. Harrison picked up the bass for this song, and performed admirably. Although that part (not him doing admirably, but him playing the bass instead of McCartney) is still up for debate.
Whoever ended up laying down the bass track, it’s but a footnote for this cool sounding guitar song! It encapsulates the spirit of Revolver majestically; great guitars, iconic songs, the transition into “a different dimension”.


109 With a Little Help From My Friends
Biiiillyyyyy Sheeeaaars!
This extremely likeable song, written by Lennon but sung by Ringo (with a little help from his friends!) is an amazing song from the Sgt. Pepper album. It’s a showcase for Ringo’s likeability as a singer. Sure, he’s not technically gifted like the other three when it comes to singing, he doesn’t reach the same highs and honestly it’s not as pretty. But damn it, when Ringo sings, the song instantly gets a different feel. And he aces this particular one, we have to admit. If not technically one of his better performances, then surely in mood.
The lyrics really add value to this song, and especially the cheeky part about turning off the light. Very Beatles.
Joe Cocker made a big splash with his cover of this song. But we’ll have to go on record and say nobody sings this song like Ringo does.


108 Baby You're a Rich Man
We’re in psychedelia territory now. Obvious from the start with the clavioline. It’s one of those fantastic songs that have a part composed by Lennon enriched with (in this case) a chorus by McCartney. Just like A Day in the Life, this way of working gives us the best of both worlds.
Released as a B-side to All You Need Is Love, this one has a message that is a bit less wholesome and a bit more … sarcastic, ironic, invoking ridicule?
Whatever it is, it works, and Baby You’re a Rich Man is a rich song which sticks in the head much longer than it has any business to!


107 Magical Mystery Tour
Roll up! The Magical Mystery Tour might not have been their most successful endeavor, yet it still produced some great songs that we’re happy to have. At first they only released the original soundtrack as a double EP, but the American release bundled these songs and some earlier singles (including Strawberry Fields Forever, Penny Lane,...) into a proper album and that has since become Beatles canon.
This song mainly sets the stage for the album to come, and we suppose the film to come (although shamefully have to admit we haven’t seen the film yet). As a standalone song, it doesn’t have that much to offer, however there is still plenty to discover on repeated listens; like a solid bassline, amazing sound (instruments and sound effects), some standout moments in the singing.


106 Taxman
There’s been some criticism that this song is a rich guy complaining about taxes. It might well be, but in that case I wish they’d do it more often.
Taxman is an excellent, groovy Harrisong with many standout qualities. The guitar solo (played by McCartney) is full of energy. The bassline (played by McCartney) sets an amazing groove for the whole song. The lyrics (written by Harrison) are rather witty and provide a lot of entertainment when paying attention to them. The backing vocals of Lennon and McCartney add a lot of value to the song as well.


105 Fixing a Hole
Sgt. Peppers is filled with incredible songs, and this is no exception. It’s not the most famous song from the album, but it’s quintessential Sgt. Pepper. The production and sound engineering are beyond anything ever heard before 1967, and there’s plenty of attention to detail, especially with the backing vocals.
As per usual for McCartney, the lyrics can take on different meanings. Some have taken it to be about hard drugs, others about pot, even others about mending things, we all know McCartney also loves the simple life of fixing things, when he’s not busy being one of the most famous people alive.
In a more recent book (The Lyrics: 1956 to the Present), McCartney says he got the idea for the song when he saw a hole under the influence of LSD.
But whatever it was once about, or wherever it originated, McCartney’s strength as a lyricist is that it’s never just about that one thing.


104 All You Need Is Love
This might well be THE soundtrack to the ‘Summer of Love’, to the hippie idea and even the 60s as a whole. Premiered on the first international broadcast for millions, All You Need Is Love features the universal and beautiful message that all you need, in fact, is love.
Of course, the verses have some more complicated things going on, which is very Lennon, but the main line is so easy to grasp. Simple, but great.
The song is a sonic masterpiece as well, with some nice touches from George Martin, and including a very interesting sound from Paul at 2:52, which even surprised himself as seen on the video footage of the original broadcast. There’s also the mystery of who sings the “She loves you, yeah yeah yeah”, and you can find whole Youtube videos on trying to figure that out.
But instead of getting lost in the little details, in the end, we can just appreciate this song for the beautiful message it holds and the way it’s brought.
It’s easy.


103 Mother Nature's Son
One of the many tracks written during their time in India, this composition from McCartney is a beauty. It features only one Beatle on multiple instruments (including some good old book-slapping), and some brass.
The end result sounds just wonderful. It’s very sweet, both the music and the lyrics, and he sings it just right.
This song gets everything just right. It has a great spot on the White Album and is definitely one of the highlights.


102 No Reply
Beatles for Sale is often considered their worst album. We disagree with that assessment, and this song is one of the key reasons to disagree.
No Reply is the album opener, and what an opener it is! Lennon sings his heart out and sounds great as he’s ever sounded. The use of dynamics in this track is really excellent, with the percussion highlighting them perfectly.
It’s always mindblowing how The Beatles were on the lookout (and usually found) for that perfect touch for a certain part. The bridge gets some handclaps that just elevate it completely.
The Anthology version (No Reply - Take 2) is also worth listening to.


101 Think for Yourself
Think for Yourself is the second track on Rubber Soul written by George Harrison. While the song has great singing, good lyrics and excellent drumming, it’s the bass that gives this particular song an enormous amount of momentum. It even has two bass tracks! And both just completely knock it out of the park. Quite remarkably, it was the first time a bass was put through a fuzzbox for recording purposes.
Another banger from the Rubber Soul album. It’s amazing how much quality is packed in just over 35 minutes.
And that brings us to the top 100…


100 The Word
It is sometimes said that McCartney’s bass playing improved dramatically - or at least changed a lot - around the Rubber Soul album. The Beatles did move from a mostly live band to a full-time studio band, and they started opting more and more for overdubs in the studio. Famously, McCartney adding bass afterwards became one of the reasons for his amazing bass lines. This was only the second time (after Michelle) that he recorded the bass on a separate track, actually playing the piano on the original recording.
And boy, did it work out. The bass and the drums lay down a great, groovy, funky backbone for the song. Add Lennon singing about ‘the word’ - love - and you get an instant classic. There is power in the idea and in the execution.


99 Got to Get You Into My Life
The story is well known at this point, but Got to Get You Into My Life was McCartney writing an ode to pot. Very McCartney at least are the optimistic overtones to this song. One of the main contributors to the popularity of this track must be the brass section, arranged by the inevitable George Martin.
Overall it’s a very original song with well executed instrumental parts and great singing, a perfect cocktail for a great track on the Revolver album.


98 Dig a Pony
Dig a Pony is unmistakably written by John Lennon. Strange, almost surreal lyrics of the verse which culminate in two simple, yet powerful lines: “All I want is you, everything has got to be just like you want it to… because…”
And like some other Lennon songs, the listener doesn’t get all the answers. We’re left wondering a bit.
This song is a late but perfect example of why The Beatles worked. All four have their necessary contribution on this track.
The harmony McCartney provides over Lennon’s already strong lead vocals lifts the song a lot. And one cannot overstate Ringo’s drumming on this particular track, nor the excellent guitar solo played by Harrison. All these factors make this song a very enjoyable and memorable part of the Let It Be album, the rooftop concert and the Get Back documentary.


97 The Inner Light
The last of Harrison’s “Indian Trilogy”, The Inner Light was written based on verses from the Tao Te Ching, underlining Harrison’s growing immersion into Indian music and spirituality. Besides vocals, no other Beatle features on this song. Instead, we get a cast of Indian musicians. The end result is a very atypical Beatles song, but with beautiful melodies and the song was even the first Harrisong to get released as a single (albeit a B-side, to Lady Madonna).
Moreover, the song has a unique soundscape and scores quite highly mostly because of that in combination with its originality.
The irony in our list is that this is the one and only song to score 50%, which should be the average Beatles song. I don’t think many people would name this song ‘the’ typical Beatles song, but here it is, The Inner Light.


96 Drive My Car
Drive My Car is the famous opener to Rubber Soul. It’s an energetic song, with top performances all across the board. This recording was the first time The Beatles stayed in the studio past midnight, something that was about to become rather commonplace, but was unthinkable just a few years (or even months) before. The Beatles set new standards in more ways than one.
Drive My Car has many strengths to lean on. The instrumentation is excellent, the singing is top tier, and you can never have enough cowbells in a song, right?!
Beep Beep, Yeah!


95 And Your Bird Can Sing
Moving over to the Revolver album, we have And Your Bird Can Sing. Well, so can The Beatles, and very well for that matter! The lead vocals by Lennon are on point, the harmony vocals are just to die for, and offset the rough guitar tone perfectly.
Harrison’s guitar solo gets widely praised, and rightly so.
But for us, the vocal harmonies are mostly what leaves us speechless after the umpteenth listen.


94 The Fool on the Hill
A recorder, you say? Not the instrument you’d expect on a Beatles track. And yet it’s become almost iconic. The Fool on the Hill (a heavily covered song) was recorded for the Magical Mystery Tour. Besides very interesting and poetic lyrics, it’s mostly the instrumentation that makes this song a great one in our opinion. So many small and greater sounds go into this record, including flutes, piano, a 12-string acoustic, finger cymbals. It makes for a very colourful song.


93 Ticket to Ride
What an extraordinary song this one is! Ticket to Ride was - and still is - an amazing track first and foremost. But next to that it’s also a milestone in The Beatles’ writing. Somewhere around this time, they started moving away from what we now call “Early Beatles”, the rock ‘n roll sound, and into different (and more interesting) directions. Ticket to Ride made it to the top of the charts easily, but also signaled a new era of (Beatles) music.
Ringo Starr deserves a huge callout for this track. His role in The Beatles has been talked about already too often, and still the idea somehow persists today that he wasn’t such a great drummer, that he had his big break by “ending up” in The Beatles. Real musicians (and fortunately many, many people) know better. Ringo is exactly what Lennon, McCartney and Harrison needed and no track shows that better than Ticket to Ride. He rolls with the changes, he does exactly what the song requires, nothing more and nothing less.


92 Wait
Wait was recorded for the Help! record, but wasn’t included on the final track list. Eventually, it ended up on Rubber Soul, where some people believe it stands out a bit, or believe that it’s one of the weaker tracks on the album. It clocks in at only 2:14, making it a rather short track, but it offers plenty to enjoy during those 2 minutes and fourteen seconds.
The drum fills around 0:11 are delightful, as is the use of tambourine. Harrison uses his volume pedal once more to great effect as well.
All in all, Wait is a great track, deserving of its spot on Rubber Soul.


91 Here, There and Everywhere
How did one of the most beautiful songs end up in spot 91? I might actually lose sleep over this. But here it is. Here, There and Everywhere is a sweet, hauntingly beautiful track written and sung by Paul McCartney. Both the lead and the backing vocals shine on this song. Released on the Revolver album, this is a definite highlight on the album.
Even Lennon, (in)famous for trashtalking Beatles songs in the 70s, didn’t have anything bad to say about this one. And even if he wanted to, how could he? There is nothing bad to say about it! Sure, some aspects are a bit simple (like the bass, the drums), but the song doesn’t feel lacking at all. The (clever) lyrics, the sweet singing and the great playing are more than enough to hook you from the start.


90 Martha My Dear
Paul McCartney proves once again that he is so much more than just a bassplayer. He’s a multi-instrumentalist, and not in the way many amateur musicians easily adopt that term. McCartney wrote this tune on the piano to great effect. The added strings and brass section make the song sound really warm and wonderful.
In classic McCartney style, the lyrics are hopeful and uplifting. The song might be named after McCartney’s dog (Martha), it’s a (human) love story.


89 Rocky Raccoon
Rocky Raccoon, another White Album track, is McCartney’s take on the Wild West. It was one of the many songs written during their time in India. And, boy, what a result!
The lyrics tell the tale about Rocky, a man who found himself in a love triangle and trying his best to amend that, only to discover the other man is the faster draw with a gun. The second verse ends with a joke about Gideon’s Bible, and like that the story is over. It feels a bit anticlimactic at times, but all in all it’s a great and funny little piece of music.
The chorus, which consists of more of the same chords, sounds really cool with McCartney scat singing instead of using actual words, and George Martin adds a honky-tonk piano as icing on the cake.


88 Everybody's Got Something to Hide Except Me and My Monkey
Certainly a one-of-a-kind song, Everybody’s Got Something to Hide Except Me and My Monkey must be one of the more energetic, crazy and unique songs in The Beatles’ discography. That energy is largely driven by a powerhouse bassline and shredding vocals.
The end part (come on, come on…) was nothing less than a stroke of genius. It wraps up the song perfectly.


87 Lovely Rita
Lovely Rita is another one of McCartney’s tracks for the Sgt. Pepper album.
A very solid song from start to finish, Lovely Rita gives us a story about a fictional meter-maid - which McCartney thought was a funny word. McCartney had the habit of writing songs that are simply stories, while Lennon is more known for his deeply personal approach to songwriting. Wherever you land on the discussion of whether one is better than the other, we have the luxury of simply enjoying both styles, and this lighthearted song about a metermaid is a prime example of McCartney’s ability to make a fun song without needing a deeper meaning.
Standout moments include a coda filled with details to discover, an amazing piano solo by George Martin (kicked off by an excited “Rita!”) and a smooth, driving bassline.


86 Revolution 1
Revolution needs some explaining. Lennon wrote this song and was quite insistent this would be their next single. The other Beatles thought it was a bit too slow for a commercial single. So, instead of going to another song, they recorded a more uptempo version of the song, simply called Revolution.
The recordings of this song took quite a while, and eventually it was decided to split the song even further, into the proper song and into the sound collage called Revolution 9.
While Revolution is a fast paced single, Revolution 1 gives us a slower, more bluesy feel. Whichever version you prefer, it’s a very strong track and might well be the start of a politically active John Lennon, who is now developed far beyond his early love songs.
While that’s all very interesting, we’re here to rate the song on its own merit. It has plenty to offer the listener; a great bassline, solid vocal performance, and generally a very clean-sounding track. The White Album in general has a very pleasing production style, the songs sounding interesting, dynamic.


85 Real Love
Everyone knows the story of the tapes Yoko Ono gave to McCartney in ‘94, with unfinished demos from Lennon.
The three remaining Beatles went to work on four tracks, finishing two at the time (and a third - Now and Then - almost thirty years later); Real Love and Free as a Bird. Those two were included in the massive Beatles Anthology project and released as singles.
Lennon’s vocals came from a cassette tape demo, so the quality wasn’t the highest, and you can clearly hear that, no matter how hard Jeff Lynne tried to mask it with the limited technology he had available. However, if you move past that, Real Love is a beauty of a song.
The lyrics, simple as they may seem, conjure up some beautiful imagery. And the rest of the band brought their A-game, to bring The Beatles back to life in the 90s. We’re definitely glad we got these bonus tracks, Real Love included!


84 Glass Onion
Beatles fans are wont to look too deeply into anything one of them ever did. We over-analyse and put everything we find under the looking glass. Lennon realised this, and thought it was rather silly. (more specifically about the Sgt. Pepper release) Glass Onion was his way to address this. He threw a lot of words together (that, to his credit, sound great together) to confuse those listeners trying to make sense of it all. The Walrus was Paul?
Behind the words, there is a rock-solid track, with an interesting use of a string section and the return of the recorder. The outro is a big change of pace and adds to the strangeness of the song.
And about “The Walrus was Paul?” Well, according to Lennon he might as well be a fox terrier, so there goes that theory…


83 The Continuing Story of Bungalow Bill
Much can be said about this song from the White Album. Written while The Beatles were in India, it holds a more impactful place in The Beatles history than you’d guess from giving it a listen. It comes across as a fun tune about a tourist (Bungalow Bill) hunting a tiger. The lyrics are funny, for sure, but are actually based on a real experience from their time in Rishikesh, India.
There is too much to talk about for this song, and most of it isn’t about the song itself, but the stories surrounding it. Too interesting to not tell, but too much to note down, so here is a rapid fire list of some fun facts, each of which has plenty of information out there if you want to know more!
- The intro was a “random” stored tape on a Mellotron
- Richard Cooke III aka Bungalow Bill (who was proud of his kill for a very brief time) actually saw the error of his ways and instead became a wildlife photographer, shooting animals with a camera instead of a gun.
- This was the first track with a female and non-Beatles voice singing a line (Yoko Ono ‘not when he looked so fierce’)
So much more than meets the eye (the ear?), The Continuing Story of Bungalow Bill has a very appropriate title.


82 Cry Baby Cry
Cry Baby Cry is a very odd little song, written by Lennon, stuck between Savoy Truffle and Revolution 9, and thus a bit of a forgotten song sometimes. It isn’t a very typical Lennon song either.
While the lyrics seemingly tell some random bits about kings, queens, duchesses and whatnot, it remains a very pleasing song to listen to. Part of that is definitely the valuable additions by McCartney on bass and Ringo on drums, both delivering a strong performance to enhance the song to great effect.
The song adds a link into Revolution 9 that was actually part of the I Will session: Can You Take Me Back. A McCartney driven tidbit. It’s little things like these that make the White Album special and give it the feeling like there’s always more to discover.


81 Good Night
And what better way to end this long string of almost uninterrupted White Album tracks since we got to Martha My Dear than with Good Night?
Good Night is the final track on the White Album and was written by John Lennon. Worried about his reputation as a rocker, Lennon wanted Ringo to sing the song. No recording remains (as far as we know) of Lennon singing the song, but those who heard him sing it say he actually sang it quite beautifully. However, we don’t want to take anything away from Ringo’s singing performance here. Ringo gives one of his best singing performances to date, and his timbre suits the song very well.
The instrumentation takes the cake, however. Arranged by George Martin, an orchestra brings Lennon’s lullaby fully to life.


80 Across the Universe
John Lennon wrote Across the Universe with some of the best lyrics he’d ever put to paper. The arrangement, however, remained a struggle. He had experimented with many different ways to do the song, and in the end none of them really worked for him.
Because the song appeared in the Get Back sessions and the Let It Be movie, the track needed to appear on the album. No recording from the sessions was used though. The version on Let It Be comes from a recording as early as February 1968, to which Phil Spector added orchestra and a choir. In our opinion, this didn’t do justice to a great song.
Lennon himself was never really happy with how it was done, either (which is fair) and partly blamed McCartney for subconsciously sabotaging this song (which is unfair).
The recording aside, this is a masterpiece in songwriting and lyrics from Lennon.


79 Two of Us
Two of Us is a McCartney tune, telling the story of a trip with Linda McCartney, his then-girlfriend and future wife. However, most Beatles fans agree to ignore that part and see this song as a love song between John and Paul. Hey, art is in the eye of the beholder, isn’t it?
It is touching to see the two of them (in Peter Jackson’s Get Back documentary) in the studio, playing this song, having fun. It gives us a glimpse of their unique bond, and shows us what it must’ve been like in better, or less-stormy, days.
The song kicks off the Let It Be album and does so in style. It’s a very strong song, mainly because of the Lennon-McCartney singing. Lennon and McCartney are both masters at their craft, but whenever they combine, they create actual magic. Two of Us is a great example of that phenomenon.


78 And I Love Her
With just a few notes, George Harrison transformed Paul McCartney’s great song into an amazing and iconic song. Sometimes teamwork is in the details. And I Love Her is a classic, a love song. Even though the lyrics could’ve used a bit more depth, it’s enough to get the message across.
The percussion gives it a more original vibe than if this was straight drums, so kudos to them for playing around with bongos and claves instead.
Two things pop in this song. Firstly there’s the sound, it just sounds gorgeous. Secondly, the solo played by Harrison lifts the song even more. Really classy work there from the youngest Beatle.


77 Yer Blues
Two, Three!
Yer Blues is a song written by Lennon whilst in India. From the lyrics, we can gather he wasn’t the happiest chap around, being a bit lonely. He’s written some great tracks there, and this is definitely one of the strongest songs from Rishikesh. A great moment is the tempo switch a bit after the 2 minute mark, and the ensuing guitar solo. Drums are awesome, the sound is just right, fits right in on the White Album.


76 We Can Work It Out
One of the best songs to illustrate the great working relationship between Lennon and McCartney. The McCartney verse that’s rather hopeful (we can work it out!), followed by the Lennon chorus immediately going ‘life is very short…’
It brings an amazing dynamic to this song, which just flies by when listening to it. The tempo change to a waltz was a stroke of genius, for which we have Harrison to thank!


75 Day Tripper
One of their most iconic singles, Day Tripper was a double A-side with We Can Work It Out. The song opens with a great, great riff, and doesn’t slow down at all. During the bridge we get a massive buildup, after which the riff kicks it off again. It’s filled with energy, thanks to both the vocals and the instruments…
The percussion in particular lifts the song another notch.
It was an extremely successful double A-side, whilst also showing the band’s change in direction. Still rocking, but more depth to the lyrics and the musicality than their earlier singles and records.


74 Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band (Reprise)
Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band was the biggest album release of all time. Period. It was extremely anticipated and for a week straight, every radio station in the world (slight hyperbole, but not as much as you’d think) played the album start to finish, 24/7. It had a massive influence on music and culture alike. And this particular track is a reprise from the opening track, but with some slight differences. This one comes around to end the album (with one more fantastic track) and it has an amazing energy, mostly due to Ringo’s powerful drumming. It slides perfectly in the running order, right after Good Morning Good Morning and before A Day in the Life.


73 Your Mother Should Know
A McCartney tune from the Magical Mystery Tour, Your Mother Should Know was considered for the famous international broadcast, but in the end they (rightly) went with All You Need Is Love. Nonetheless, this song is a sonic masterpiece, with many colourful sounds painting a beautiful picture. The backing vocals take us back to their early days, great stuff.


72 I'm So Tired
Lennon wrote many songs about dreaming, being in bed, being tired… This track from the White Album was written in Rishikesh, India. It’s fairly safe to say Lennon had some trouble sleeping during this time.
The lyrics are very strong, with some funny moments (curse Sir Walter Raleigh!). This song feels like a brother to I’m Only Sleeping, from the Revolver album.
The bassline is also worth noticing. While not being overly in your face, they add a whole lot to the track.


71 I Will
Clocking in at only 1:45, I Will is a short but incredible gem on the White Album. It’s McCartney doing what McCartney does best. Great lyrics, melody, bongo playing, just all-round fantastic. However! Have you ever listened closely to the bassline? We suggest that you do, and you’ll discover some amazing vocal bass by McCartney himself. Even without a bass guitar, he’s a bass player through and through.


70 Sexy Sadie
Originally written with the title ‘Maharishi’, Lennon wrote this song right after the India trip, being disillusioned by the whole experience. Harrison was able to convince him to change the lyrics and the title, which in retrospect seemed the wiser course. Without getting into it here, it seems Magic Alex was more to blame for any trouble than the Maharishi. However, we probably won’t ever know the full truth of what went down. We certainly weren’t there.
That aside, Sexy Sadie is just a fantastic track, with standout vocals!


69 Carry That Weight
Anything from Abbey Road will already sound amazing, because of the incredible production. It is hard to see these medley songs as individual tracks, and so rating them was probably the hardest part about the whole experience. We’ve tried our best, but some are short, and for the medley we’d definitely say the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. But the parts themselves are ironclad on their own. Carry That Weight is near the end of the medley, and is definitely one of the strongest parts of the medley.


68 Julia
Lennon wrote Julia about his mother, but also with plenty of references to Yoko Ono. Julia is a hauntingly beautiful song with rich lyrics, fragile yet powerful singing, and a simple but effective instrumentation. Not a side of Lennon we often see in The Beatles.
It sits in the middle of the White Album and is the only Beatles track where Lennon is the only Beatle to play and/or sing on it.


67 Revolution
Some more distortion, anyone? Lennon wrote this song (as Revolution 1) for the White Album, and pushed very hard for a single release. The other Beatles didn’t think the song was fast enough, so they sped it up and recorded a different version, this one. It’s faster, it’s dirtier, it’s a whole lot more distortion!
Revolution feels spontaneous, especially the instrumental part where the piano comes in. The sound production is rather experimental. It’s definitely not everyone’s cuppa tea, but most people we’ve talked to seem to prefer this version over the one on the album.
The opening guitar riff is probably the most memorable part of the song, and quite iconic.


66 Honey Pie
She was a working girl… Honey Pie is Paul McCartney at his best with his so-called “granny music”. Granny music it may be, it is also an exceptional piece of music. The instrumentation takes you on a beautiful journey. The singing, the lyrics, it all fits into place.
Lennon, famously contrary to most of McCartney’s songs in this genre, nonetheless delivers a great guitar solo on this track.
Peak Beatles!


65 Get Back
The Get Back sessions might have had some ups and downs, the music that arose from them is nothing to scoff at. Get Back is an upbeat track with plenty of energy, and amazing guitars. The contribution from Billy Preston lifts the song twice as high! Everyone brings their A-game, and the rooftop concert in general is definitely worth a watch.


64 Free as a Bird
Free as a Bird was one of the remaining demo songs that Yoko Ono gave to the three remaining Beatles. Real Love and Free as a Bird were finished for the Anthology project, while Now and Then was only finished decades later.
Free as a Bird is an incredible collaboration, where McCartney, Harrison and Ringo completed Lennon’s unfinished song by adding some sections, lyrics, rearranging things a bit…
This one, more so than Real Love, is a real combined effort from the four Beatles. And it shows.
The solo that Harrison brings to the table perfectly fits the mood of the song. The lyrics use the beautiful imagery of being, predictably, free as a bird. Considering the quality of the demo, it’s a miracle the song sounds as amazing as it does.


63 Getting Better
Getting Better is a powerful Sgt. Pepper track. From the opening guitars, to the great singing and lyrics, but also the irresistible bass track, there are many different sides to this tune.
Despite a constant rhythm that the guitars push, it’s surprisingly interesting in the rhythm section with the bass flowing nicely between it and some well chosen sections where the groove seems to slow down. It doesn’t really, but it gives a great little effect.


62 I'm Only Sleeping
Lennon and McCartney, name a more iconic duo? Well… Lennon and being in bed? Honestly, the man seems to have been born to spend his life in bed. All joking aside, Lennon often visits the theme of sleeping, dreaming, being in bed in general. I’m Only Sleeping might be one of the best tracks to cover that theme. The lyrics are just classic Lennon. “Everybody seems to think I'm lazy, I don’t mind, I think they’re crazy running everywhere at such a speed, ‘til they find there’s no need.” Incredible stuff.
The backwards guitar solo is a perfect example of George Harrison’s ability to keep at it until it’s perfect. He spent hours and hours perfecting this one, and it shines!


61 Piggies
We know Harrison can write some funny, biting, satirical lyrics. And Piggies might be one of the best examples of that. With a nod to Animal Farm, human society is laid bare in a story about little - and bigger - piggies. Very British, this song.
The music is quite interesting in itself, with a harpsichord taking up a big chunk of the instrumentation. Quite surprisingly, the song clocks in at 2:04, making it a fairly short song. With so much going on and happening in it, it feels quite a bit longer!


60 Hey Bulldog
Find me a cooler piano riff than Hey Bulldog. I bet you can’t.
The lyrics to this song are very Lennonesque, with plenty of wordplay. In the end, it might not mean much (or does it?), but it flows nicely, and as a listener you can really enjoy the words next to the music.
The energy in this song is palpable. The bassline is largely to thank for that, it does quite stand out in this track!
Hey Bulldog is a track that sat on the Yellow Submarine album for decades, a little bit lost, but has recently gained a lot of appreciation. We can only be glad for that, because it’s an incredible song! The energy, especially in the ending, is rather unique.


59 You Won't See Me
At 3 minutes and 19 seconds, You Won’t See Me was the longest Beatles track recorded up to that point. After 5 albums, that’s quite interesting to see. The evolution from early rock to their own unique sound has a big schism with the release of Rubber Soul. This song illustrates that perfectly. More complex lyrics, different instrumentation, yet retaining their strengths that they had been building up, like solid backing vocals, great melodies… And maybe in this song most of all, the infallible Ringo Starr. What a performance on this song, and it’s not often talked about! Not enough, anyway.


58 I Want to Tell You
I Want to Tell You is a Harrisong from the Revolver album. It’s one of the early psychedelic-inspired songs. Backing Harrison is the incredible and unparalleled rhythm section of McCartney’s driving bassline and Ringo’s energetic drumming.
The little nod from McCartney’s singing in the fade-out with the Indian scale is just perfect.


57 Nowhere Man
We’re really getting into some heavy hitters.
Nowhere Man is mainly written by Lennon, and gives us valuable insight through his striking lyrics. Compared to early Beatles lyrics, songs like Nowhere Man bring so much more to the table. But putting more into the lyrics doesn’t mean less goes into the instrumental part of the song, no no. If you listen closely, you’ll hear an exceptional performance by McCartney on the bass, and unbelievable vocal performances across the board.
A true masterpiece from a band in top form on Rubber Soul.


56 Good Morning Good Morning
As with about any song on Sgt. Pepper, Good Morning Good Morning is incredible sonically. The sound they managed to create with just a 4-track recorder is unparalleled, a whole tapestry of rich sounds. This song is no exception.
But what sets this song apart more is the rhythm section. It’s near perfect. The bass is energetic, interesting, surprising and flows amazingly throughout the whole song. The same could be said for the drums. Both at the top of their game, McCartney and Ringo easily lift this song a few notches higher.


55 Help!
Help! is another one of those iconic songs from the early Beatles. Or rather, it’s one of those songs that are right in the middle of them changing the sound of popular music forever. Help! was written mostly by Lennon and shows a surprisingly vulnerable Lennon.
What makes this song so great has a lot to do with the singing. Besides a very strong lead vocal, the backing vocals weave in and out, creating a full sound that adds a whole new layer to this rocking song.


54 Rain
Rain is one of the Beatles’ greatest singles to release (a B-side, no less!), and honestly would’ve fit perfectly on the Revolver album as well. It has that psychedelic sound. They played the song quite a bit faster in the studio, but slowed the tape down, to get said effect.
The result is an incredible track, with yet again an unbelievable rhythm section. This must rank among Ringo’s finest drumming, and McCartney is right next to him, firing on all cylinders.
It’s nice to see rain not as an annoyance (such as most people view it in daily life), but as a positive. While this was mainly written by Lennon, McCartney would revisit that theme in the song Mamunia from his widely loved Band on the Run album.


53 Hello, Goodbye
Hello, Goodbye is another sonic masterpiece. All of their recordings around the Sgt. Pepper period have such a rich sound that they really stand out.
Our favorite part of this song might just be the coda, though. The song seems like it’s over, and then launches into the great and uplifting actual finale of the song. So colourful!
Once again the percussion shines on this track. Ringo fulfills an often overlooked role in The Beatles. He does what the song requires, nothing more and nothing less. His greatest strength is probably that he sees the whole kit as a potential for adding to the song and doesn’t think in ‘beats’. It’s so refreshing to hear his drumming on these great songs.


52 I Am the Walrus
I Am the Walrus must be one of the weirdest songs The Beatles ever released. Actually, it probably is the weirdest. And it shouldn’t work. Just musically, if you look at the chord progression, there is no way it should sound anywhere near good.
But it does. That’s where the Lennon magic comes in.
The production keeps up with Lennon’s odd lyrics to create a wonderful and unique sound. It was released as the B-side to Hello, Goodbye. This must’ve been one of the least commercial songs to hit the airwaves at that point. This is only four years after the release of She Loves You or I Want to Hold Your Hand.
The Walrus would be a recurring and important figure in Lennon’s artistic career. (whoever The Walrus is…)
Originality is one of the greatest strengths of the Fab Four, and I Am the Walrus is the epitome of that.


51 The Ballad of John and Yoko
The Ballad of John and Yoko was The Beatles’ last number one hit single until Now and Then, 54 years later. It’s just Lennon and McCartney playing all the instruments. If it wasn’t clear by the title alone, this is very much a Lennon tune. It chronicles the story of Lennon and Ono (John and Yoko) as they are looking to get married. And it does so in a highly groovy style.
This song was recorded during a very troubled time, basically on the verge of the band’s collapse. And yet Lennon and McCartney work together like the powerhouse tandem we know them as. This shows that no matter what happened outside the studio, they always found a way to connect through their music. It’s the music that brought them together in the first place.


50 I Me Mine
I Me Mine was the last song the band worked on before splitting up. It wasn’t planned to be on Let It Be originally, but because the movie included them playing it (and Lennon waltzing to the tune), they decided to include the song on the album after all.
Written by Harrison, the lyrics delve into the egotistical nature of our society.
The song further takes advantage of excellent drumming to make it a very solid contribution to the Let It Be album.


49 Michelle
Michelle is an absolute masterclass from Paul McCartney. The singing, both lead and backing vocals, is downright fantastic. Instrumentally, the song jumps out as a very original and creative piece as well. It’s one of their most covered songs, behind Yesterday. McCartney definitely knows how to write a ballad.
The chord progression is particularly interesting in this track. Rubber Soul really saw some great experimentation by all of the four Beatles.
Michelle was their only song to win a Grammy in the “song of the year” category.


48 Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band
The opening track to the Sgt. Pepper album doesn’t disappoint. On the contrary! It establishes early on that this album will be special. The stage is set with the title track.
The overall sound is just amazing, with plenty of instruments and sound bits used to full effect.
It sets up the album to be a performance by the Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band. While that setup doesn’t quite carry through the entire album (or does it?), it’s still highly innovative, and the end of the song goes straight into the setup of the next track.
Jimi Hendrix famously played this song only three days after it was released, to an audience including at least Paul McCartney, who was very impressed by the American. (McCartney would go on to play a role of importance when he recommended [even insisting he should play] Hendrix to the organizers of the Monterey Pop Festival)


47 Oh! Darling
Oh! Darling is one of McCartney’s great late-Beatles tunes. It’s one of the highlights on Abbey Road and it showcases the musical genius of McCartney. He came into the studio early every day to record his vocals, until they were perfect. And he aced it completely. This was an easy 10/10 for vocals.
But the singing isn’t the only strong part of this song. Both the bass playing and the drumming are creative and powerful.
This is simply McCartney at his very best in the late 60s!


46 I've Got a Feeling
It’s widely recognized that Paul McCartney was struck by inspiration in the late 60s. While Lennon was writing a bit less than we’d been used to at this point, McCartney knocked out one great tune after another. However, the real magic of the Beatles usually happens when both of them (or rather, all four of them) take up a tune together. I’ve Got a Feeling combines a McCartney part with a Lennon part to great effect. It’s raw, it’s energetic, it’s masterful singing.
This track really does have all the ingredients for a classic Beatles song: a great guitar part, screaming vocals, Lennon offering another vibe, melodies coming together…


45 Back in the U.S.S.R.
The opening track of the iconic White Album. Inspired by the Beach Boys’ style, McCartney wrote one of his finest rockers, Back in the U.S.S.R.
We can’t think of a more powerful way to open an album. Even though the mood wasn’t at the top behind the scenes with Ringo temporarily taking some time off the band, the energy on the record doesn’t let that show one bit. McCartney himself lays down a very convincing drum track, and Harrison kills it with an amazing guitar solo.
The high note during the last verse is such a brilliant bit, adding even more to the energy and power of this song. Lastly, we have to admit the lyrics have some very funny moments. McCartney makes a bit of a parody of Chuck Berry’s Back in the U.S.A.
Incredible stuff.


44 The End
However you look at it, The End was not the end song for The Beatles. Technically Let It Be released after Abbey Road, though recorded earlier. On the album, there’s the hidden track Her Majesty. In the 90s, we got Free as a Bird and Real Love. Even later, Now and Then hit the airwaves.
And yet, for a lot of fans, The End does mark the end. It’s the end of the medley, the end (barring Her Majesty - the hidden track) of Abbey Road, their last recorded album. The Beatles themselves must’ve known it would be the end as well, hence the title of this song.
And what is The End? Well, it’s ending on a high! Coming right after Carry That Weight, The End starts with energy, and quickly goes into Ringo’s only recorded drum solo in The Beatles’ oeuvre. After this, The Beatles set the stage for an incredible showdown of three extremely competent guitarists. All three of them recorded this live in the studio, bouncing their great solos off each other, constantly rotating. McCartney - Harrison - Lennon. In that order.
And then, the end. The now famous words “And in the end, the love you take is equal to the love you make.” A final message. A bow and the curtains close.
For some of us fans, we can’t help but see this as the true end, and it’s just perfect.


43 This Boy
Certainly one of the very best vocal performances in their entire catalogue, This Boy features a mesmerizing three-way harmony during the verses. The soft, sweet harmony only gets broken by an amazingly powerful Lennon, proving why he is one of the great rock ‘n roll voices in history.
The singing is the obvious strength of this song, but something could also be said about the chord progression, which makes it an interesting song on its own, even without the strong vocal performance.
This Boy is easily overlooked, and was only a B-side, but it remains a unique and unparalleled song from their early years. And after 2 minutes and 16 seconds, it’s over way too quickly!


42 Paperback Writer
We’re very happy McCartney didn’t become a paperback writer instead of a musician.
Paperback Writer was the first song in which they boosted the bass a bit and McCartney could be heard in full glory, and man did he step up to the challenge. McCartney’s bass parts only became more melodic and fantastic as the years went by. Paperback Writer certainly played a part in that.
An all-round energetic performance by the four lads for this hit single.


41 Lady Madonna
The Beatles recorded this single to carry them over while they were in India. It’s a piano driven (killer riff) masterclass of a song, seemingly leaving psychedelia behind and returning to more traditional music. (Ringo described it as rock-as-swing)
The vocal arrangement is top tier, and the same could be said for the instruments used, with a very strong brass backing. It’s the perfect energy for this tune.
Even better than the brass section are Lennon, Harrison and McCartney using their voices to imitate the brass section during the instrumental bit.


40 Savoy Truffle
Most Beatles fans know about the story that Savoy Truffle is a song written about Harrison’s good friend Eric Clapton, who enjoyed sweets very much - maybe a bit too much. The lyrics are a bit silly, which isn’t too far fetched with Harrison, whom it feels like could’ve been a part of Monty Python just as easily. (And there are more stories to be told about that as well!)
But putting aside the lyrics, Savoy Truffle offers a really great track for the White Album, with great chords (it IS George Harrison after all), an amazing drumming performance and a very solid vocal performance, especially in the choruses, where Harrison sings a great harmony.
The instrumental bridge is another highlight in this song, with the guitar and the brass section playing off each other.
This Harrison tune is sometimes underappreciated, and wrongly so!


39 Octopus's Garden
The quintessential Ringo song (granted, he didn’t write that many while in The Beatles). It’s a well known story that he heard about octopi collecting shells to make their “gardens” nicer, and that was enough to write a great little tune about it.
In the Get Back documentary, we witness Ringo playing the song to Harrison, who actually contributed a lot. Teamwork made the dream work and we ended up with Octopus’s Garden.
And what’s not to like? Great singing (backings AND lead), amazing sound and production, funny and optimistic lyrics and a great guitar solo to boot.
The Beatles are an equal partnership of all four. Even if leadership mostly fell on Lennon and McCartney, there is no Beatles without Harrison or Ringo. Ringo was the best drummer the other three could’ve wished for, and they got Octopus’s Garden as an unexpected bonus. Best deal they ever made.


38 Girl
Girl is an incredible track from Rubber Soul, one of its many great pieces, mainly written by John Lennon. It easily boasts some of the best production, playing, singing and lyrics from the whole album, and that’s saying something!
Harrison manages to create a sound for the solo that we’re surprised to learn is not a sitar, but just his guitar and a capo high up the neck.
The quality of the song, the execution and the tinkering in the studio all culminate in this gem of a song. And the best part is yet to come, with the backing vocals going “tit, tit, tit…”, but we’ll let Paul McCartney explain it, as he does in the book ‘Many Years From Now’ (Barry Miles, 1997)
“It was to get some light relief in the middle of this real big career that we were forging. If we could put in something that was a little bit subversive then we would. George Martin might say, ‘Was that “dit dit” or “tit tit” you were singing?’ ‘Oh, “dit dit”, George, but it does sound a bit like that, doesn’t it?’ Then we’d get in the car and break down laughing.”
This, more than anything else, is the most Beatles thing you could think of.


37 Yellow Submarine
We all live in a Yellow Submarine! Who doesn’t recognize those words when they’re sung? Yellow Submarine is often seen as a bit of a silly song (which it might be), or a children’s song, but not recognized enough for what it really is, which is a very original, creative and great piece of music from master craftsmen at their creative peak.
The barebones of the song may be rather simple, or at least nothing out of the ordinary. But the way the song is tackled, lifts it into the extraordinary. There are a million different sounds and sound effects, there is the brilliantly jovial singing of Ringo (who could better encapsulate the spirit of this song than Ringo?). The Beatles’ experimentation in the studio is well known and documented, and this song is a perfect example that their experimenting paid off in multitude.
Lastly, a lot of great musicians or artists don’t see mistakes as something gone wrong, but as an opportunity for something new (or you could say, a “happy accident”). The Beatles did this a lot of times, and this song has one of the best “mistakes” of all. Ringo was supposed to sing: “every one of us has all he needs”, but ended up singing: “every one of us has all we need”, which is just so much better. Thanks, Ringo, for that one!


36 Sun King
Sun King is arguably the best contribution to the Abbey Road Medley from Lennon. It has an incredible atmosphere and a warm, summer sound. The harmonies from Lennon, Harrison and McCartney sound better than ever. The bass and the percussion perfectly match the tone of the song, as does the sound of the guitar.
A very sophisticated part of the medley, despite the sillier fake-Spanish lines at the end. Top notch Abbey Road stuff!


35 In My Life
In My Life is one of the only songs where some dispute exists over the authorship. Whatever the truth may be, it’s clear as day Lennon had a big hand in this, and The Beatles are a group of four, all of them contributing to their success. So instead of worrying about who did what part, we can just enjoy the whole as their collective achievement.
In My Life is a standout track on Rubber Soul, for many reasons. The lyrics are excellent, one of their best written. The solo (a contribution by George Martin, who played piano with the recording at half-speed, giving his sped-up piano a honky-tonk feel) gives the song a baroque feel. The percussion is Ringo at his finest, offering exactly what the song needs, instead of thinking in beats or wanting to show off. The singing is great.
In My Life stands the test of time, and remains many people’s favorite Beatles song, and we can’t blame them.


34 Now and Then
A very special song, Now and Then was one of Lennon’s home recordings Yoko Ono gave to the remaining Beatles after Lennon’s death. The quality wasn’t great, so the song wasn’t finished for the Anthology project. But decades later, with the proper technology (AI managing to isolate Lennon’s vocals from the demo), McCartney and Ringo finished the song, with a little help from Giles Martin. The result: their first number 1 single since The Ballad of John and Yoko.
The solo, played by McCartney, is a most obvious ode to Harrison. The backing vocals/harmonies are taken from earlier Beatles songs. The production behind this song is truly impressive. For one last time - and for many, many Beatles fans, a first time in their lifetime - the world experienced a new Beatles song release. Now and Then stands as the perfect postscript in the greatest band’s history.


33 Norwegian Wood (This Bird Has Flown)
Rubber Soul is a top pick for The Beatles’ greatest album. Although the same could arguably be said for most of their albums. That doesn’t take away from the brilliance of Rubber Soul though. One of the reasons for that is Norwegian Wood, an iconic Beatles song. The first western pop song that features a sitar. It could even be argued that the increasing interest in Eastern culture that followed in the next few decades started right here, with young George Harrison and The Beatles.
Everything in this song just clicks and works like it’s supposed to, including the funny and rather dark ending to the lyrics.


32 When I'm Sixty-Four
Based on a melody McCartney wrote at 14, When I’m Sixty-Four is often classified as one of McCartney’s “granny songs”. However, whatever people mean by that, be it derogatory or endearing, we see only a great, great piece of music from Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band.
The production and instrumentation are very Pepper, meaning it’s among the most colourful and successful productions in musical history. The lyrics offer a hilarious point of view from someone pondering ageing.
It’s so lighthearted, it’s hard not to smile listening to this song. A McCartney classic!


31 Ob-La-Di, Ob-La-Da
One of The Beatles’ most controversial songs among the fanbase, Ob-La-Di, Ob-La-Da is an uplifting ska-like song that is now known for being a bit of a struggle during the recording process, only falling into place when Lennon, half-angry, returned after leaving the session and nearly smashing the piano keys saying this is how it should be played!
Whatever the struggles they may have had recording the song, the result is a resounding success. Ob-La-Di, Ob-La-Da is many people’s first favorite Beatles song. And it’s not hard to see why. It’s catchy, funny, positive and it has a killer bass groove. The brass section adds even more to the sound.


30 Maxwell's Silver Hammer
It’s time to set the record straight. Maxwell’s Silver Hammer is a hilarious, great and underappreciated song. The song’s had a bad reputation for so long now, mostly due to the pains some members of the band were experiencing trying to nail the recording, and John Lennon putting the song down in later interviews. More moderate takes include the placing on the album is a bit off and that makes it less enjoyable to listen to. But if you go right to the heart of the song, there is nothing we can see that’s bad, or even subpar, about this track at all.
We hear a well-produced, well-crafted track with a hilariously dark story. We hear Paul McCartney being his creative self and making a unique track, with some of his better work as a lyricist in The Beatles.
It’s time to give Maxwell’s Silver Hammer the respect and love it deserves. What a great song!


29 For No One
For No One is a hauntingly beautiful ballad from Revolver. This song, which surprisingly doesn’t even reach the length of 2 minutes, was written by McCartney and is most famous for the incredible French horn solo. Alan Civil had to play a note that’s usually outside the instrument’s natural reach, and pulled it off perfectly.
After not even 2 minutes, the song ends on a very interesting chord, leaving us wanting for more.
It is certainly one of their sweetest and most moving ballads.


28 Let It Be
Maybe one of the most recognisable songs from the 20th century, Let It Be is an iconic masterpiece from the final period of The Beatles. Mostly a McCartney composition, Let It Be has a hopeful, or rather peaceful, message and starts off as a subdued piano ballad but really picks up energy along the way.
The guitar solo that Harrison delivers is very instrumental to the power that the song holds. It’s one of those songs that’ll just grab you and keep your attention long after it ends. But it’s also one of those songs that’s probably been played to death on your local radio so that it doesn’t quite do it for you anymore. But if you pay close attention again, and immerse yourself in the song with the proper sound (not just over any old radio), you’ll find that it can still reach you. And its beauty is universal.


27 Dear Prudence
There are only three songs that received top marks for both bass and percussion, and this is one of them. McCartney takes care of the rhythm section all by himself in absolute style. Ringo was absent during the recording of Dear Prudence, so that’s McCartney on both bass and drums. And boy does it lift the song to great, great heights.
And, no, let’s not hear that silly talk that Ringo wasn’t even the best drummer of The Beatles. The man is a living legend and the best drummer the band could’ve wished for. But that’s not to say McCartney couldn’t find his way around a drum kit as well. (after all, that’s all McCartney drumming on the Band on the Run album!)
Besides the rhythm section, this song is a beautiful tune written during their time in India, mostly by Lennon, for Mia Farrow’s sister Prudence, who was so deep into meditation that she barely left her room anymore.
Beautiful singing, beautiful sound, beautiful message, beautiful lyrics. What can we say? This is an incredible song from the White Album, which has an abundance of top tier songs.


26 Long, Long, Long
You won’t often find this song topping any lists, but this Harrison composition is a quiet masterful work of art. It sounds introspective, spiritual and it has a haunting atmosphere, enhanced by the excellent drumming.
Harrison loves unconventional chords and chord progressions, and this song is another great example of it.
The organ is a great touch as well.
And let’s not forget the weird, kinda scary ending.


25 She's Leaving Home
A staple of Sgt. Peppers, She’s Leaving Home is a song about a girl running away from home. Funny story, as the girl who inspired McCartney to start writing the song was someone he’d actually met and presented a prize on a TV show years earlier. The Beatles’ universe is small, sometimes.
The arrangement was not by George Martin, as he was not available on the day that McCartney decided he wanted it done. Patience isn’t Macca’s greatest virtue. We’re great fans of George Martin’s work. But we have to admit Mike Leander did a great job with the strings.
She’s Leaving Home is an excellent interplay between Lennon and McCartney on the vocals, which McCartney doesn’t tire of reminding us of.


24 Helter Skelter
Helter Skelter was all about sounding loud and hitting hard! It’s a prototype for the later heavy metal genre. Screeching vocals, pounding drums, loud noises and a lot of chaos. Apparently the recording process was also quite chaotic, so that makes sense.
McCartney delivers a killer vocal performance in this highly original song. We feel like it couldn’t have been any other place but on the White Album, which makes it a perfect fit.
Ringo has some fun with this track as well, poor man had blisters on his fingers!


23 Happiness Is a Warm Gun
Lennon’s strongest song on the White Album is undoubtedly Happiness Is a Warm Gun. A song containing multiple parts (which we often associate with McCartney), Happiness takes us on a journey that could imply strong sexual desire or references to drugs. The Beatles loved ambiguous lyrics, and this is a strong example of such a song when done right.
Musically, the song is equally strong as in the lyrics department, maybe even surpassing it. There are three main parts and they flow into each other wonderfully. The timing in this song is a lot more intricate than at first glance as well, which was often the case when Lennon took the wheel. He acted mostly on gut feeling, and that often resulted in very interesting musical compositions, that sometimes even feel like they shouldn't work on paper.
The singing on this song is among the best Lennon ever did. An easy 10 out of 10 there!


22 Love You To
The first of Harrison’s “Indian trilogy”, Love You To is a mesmerising song from the Revolver record. It features a few Beatles and a few Indian musicians, going through an almost spiritual journey, with some excellent lyrics from Harrison overlaying the whole thing. Near the end, the whole thing speeds up, before fading out. Ending at the 3 minute mark, it’s not quite as long as his more known Indian track Within You Without You (Sgt. Pepper). But in quality it’s not much behind it.
Revolver was highly experimental, and we can’t imagine it without this tune, which was a huge step up from the experimentation with the sitar on Norwegian Wood and introduced millions of people to more Indian-like (classical) music.


21 Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds
Based on a drawing by his son, Lennon paints us a psychedelic word picture with Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds, featuring Lewis Carroll-like lyrics. We do picture ourselves on that boat on a river.
Primarily written by Lennon, one of the biggest highlights however is the Paul McCartney bass, which is quite a standout performance. Other than that, the song is generally just a treat to listen to, and one of the more famous songs from the Sgt. Pepper album.


20 Within You Without You
George Harrison’s greatest Indian-themed song without a doubt, Within You Without You has a prominent spot, being in the middle of Sgt. Pepper, as the first track of the B-side.
It’s one of those rare songs where there’s only one Beatle on the recording, with Harrison playing several instruments and delivering a beautiful vocal performance. The rest of the personnel was made up of Indian musicians.
The song takes us through a journey, guiding us are Harrison’s (arguably) greatest lyrics to date. It’s easy to see why he is seen as the spiritual Beatle in hindsight, just listen to these lyrics.
The song finally ends with laughter. A bold move, which was not to the liking of George Martin nor Geoff Emerick, but Harrison had the final say, and the levity the laughter provides does work well on the album.
A masterful song on their most impactful album (and potentially the most impactful album in history), Within You Without You made it possible for so many people to connect to Indian music and culture, both at that time and later. Harrison helped build a bridge and we still feel the effects today.


19 Because
Easily their greatest vocals ever recorded, Because has Lennon, Harrison and McCartney each singing their part of the harmony. Each recorded an additional 2 overdubs, so we hear 9 voices in total. Even more impressive, they recorded their vocals at the same time. (Apparently with McCartney making hand gestures, “conducting” the singing)
Three microphones, but all going into one single track. All three had to give a brilliant performance at the same time, which they did. Those present in the studio that day can testify that they took this song very seriously. There was not a lot of joking going on while they tried to record this. They took their time and worked on it until it was perfect.
The lyrics are poetic, rather simple but very moving and effective.
Because is a unique song in the Beatles and pop catalogues, and one that never fails to hit when you put the record on.


18 She Came in Through the Bathroom Window
As part of the Abbey Road medley, She Came in Through the Bathroom Window stands out mostly because of its rhythm section; both bass and drums with an amazing execution. The backing vocals are great as well.
The song is based on a fan breaking into McCartney’s house by, you guessed it, coming through the bathroom window.
They recorded Polythene Pam and She Came in Through the Bathroom Window as one take, which gives the latter the great segue/intro with Lennon edging them on as the tempo changes “Oh, look out!”.
And lastly, we cannot ignore Harrison’s guitar playing on this track, with some very fine seasoning in between McCartney’s lines.


17 Golden Slumbers
Golden Slumbers signals the final, and best, part of the Abbey Road medley. Based on the lyrics to a lullaby song, of which a young McCartney could read the words but not the melody so he simply invented his own, Golden Slumbers is as sweet as they come. This song, followed by Carry That Weight and The End, is still played often by McCartney in concert, to great enthusiasm from the audience.


16 I Want You (She's So Heavy)
A song of epic proportions! I Want You (She’s So Heavy) is trademark Lennon genius, with simple - bordering on the obsessive - lyrics repeating over and over, while the music takes on slight variations as the song progresses. These variations are supported by superb bass work and excellent drumming. But the song is much more than that alone, there is incredibly strong singing, a very welcome organ and smooth, smooth guitarwork.
The song culminates in a long outro which has increasing white noise until finally ending in a famous hard cut, signaling the end of Abbey Road side one.
This song probably won’t be for everyone, and according to Geoff Emerick, McCartney wasn’t very pleased with the end of the song either, feeling it was a bit too avant-garde with all the white noise and the hard cut. But we’re sure he appreciated the track for what it was and the ending could only irk him if he thought the song was really good, right? Otherwise why would he care?
But that aside, I Want You (She’s So Heavy) is interchangeably linked to their arguably best sounding album, and is an integral part of it. A late Beatle John masterpiece, with great contributions from all of them!


15 Here Comes the Sun
As their most streamed song, Here Comes the Sun is obviously highly popular, especially in the modern age. And it’s easy to see why. Harrison wrote the perfect soundtrack to optimism with this one. Besides the message, it’s a sonic gem (including an early use of the Moog synthesizer). There are not many songs that just sound as good as this one does. Is that because of his sweet vocals, the tight production, the instruments used, the way they play it? Probably all of the above.
Once again, Ringo is also doing his part, creating a drumline that highlights the oddities in rhythm and enhancing the song perfectly.


14 Being for the Benefit of Mr. Kite!
Picture (or google) a 4-track recorder. And now listen to Being for the Benefit of Mr. Kite! What The Beatles (with great help of George Martin and others) pulled off in 1967 with Sgt. Pepper is nothing short of an artistic miracle. One of the best sounding albums of all time was recorded using no more than 4 tracks (and a plethora of tricks to make the most of those 4 tracks and all kinds of sounds). It’s almost too hard to believe.
This song might be the most colourful of all the Sgt. Pepper ones. The lyrics were written by Lennon, inspired by an old circus poster. The atmosphere created does remind the listener of circus acts, and that’s mostly down to the used sounds and instruments.
One of the most unique and wonderful songs in their entire catalogue.


13 Come Together
Come Together is the opening track to Abbey Road, their last recorded album. Come Together is one of those songs that really benefited from the whole group giving it their all on the recording. It’s hard to imagine this song without its iconic bassline, or Lennon’s intriguing lines, or Ringo’s on point drumming, or Harrison’s guitar (especially near the end). The four of them are always greater than their individual talents.
This track ranks high in just about any category, because it does everything extremely well. Nothing in this song betrays any laziness, weakness whatsoever. A very competently crafted song, which draws anyone listening to the album in just about instantly! The Beatles in general are great at drawing people in at record pace, they usually don’t take the long way to get into the song. For this one, all it takes is about one second.


12 Don't Let Me Down
Sometimes, less is more. That goes for just about anything. This song offers a chorus consisting of fairly simple lyrics and chords, but it doesn’t fail to hit the mark! Through its simplicity, it shows an honest, singing-from-the-heart Lennon. It’s so powerful, so brilliant. Even the way he sings it; screaming the message of “don’t let me down”, into the sweeter verses, and incredible backing vocals all throughout.
In classic Lennon fashion, there is something with the rhythm of the verses, with the bass driving that home fully. Yet it never sounds contrived or out of place, on the contrary.
Their performance of this song on the rooftop concert is mesmerizing to watch. There is something magical about it.


11 While My Guitar Gently Weeps
For any other band, this song would most likely be at the number 1 spot, or at the very least always safely in the top 3. And for many Beatles fans, this will also be the case in their own Beatles ranking. And you have our full support if you do. While My Guitar Gently Weeps is one of their most celebrated songs from the White Album.
It is considered one of the prime examples of George Harrison’s amazing songwriting abilities, and one of the songs to highlight that he was turning out to be equal to Lennon and McCartney in the songwriting department.
While My Guitar Gently Weeps features an (uncredited at the time because of some label rules) guest appearance from Eric Clapton, a close friend of Harrison, and mostly one of the most lauded guitar players in the rock/blues world. The solo he delivers is iconic and lifts the song to even greater heights.
Also worth listening to is Harrison’s acoustic version of this song on Anthology 3.


10 Hey Jude
Another song that might be a bit overplayed on the radio, but there’s a very, very good reason for that. Can we call it the ultimate hit of The Beatles? Hey Jude has touched the hearts of millions of people, and that’s not even an exaggeration. It holds a message of hope, of positivity, and it could be about anyone. It was written by McCartney for Julian Lennon after his parents broke up, but it applies to everyone on this earth. It’s an anthem, and to this day you’ll hear this pop up and people will come together and sing along, mostly to the very iconic and long coda.
Musically, there’s plenty of strong stuff on this track, including amazing drumming and great singing, but at the end of the day, this is a very rare instance of a song surpassing the music. Hey Jude is optimism, Hey Jude is hope, Hey Jude is inspiring, bringing people together. And therefore it’s the ultimate Beatles hit. It would be in very bad form to have this song outside the top 10, despite all the many other strong contenders.


9 Penny Lane
Penny Lane and Strawberry Fields Forever will always remain the most insane and strongest double A-side single. Two of their greatest songs released together, and not even appearing on an album. One side very much Lennon, this Penny Lane side mostly McCartney. And what a studio recording this song is! Sonically rich, musically interesting and diverse, Penny Lane offers us a sort of slice of life, albeit with some oddities. We see several characters on the aforementioned street, going about their daily lives. It gives us a glimpse into the streets of Liverpool the four lads grew up on.
This song, alongside Strawberry Fields Forever, also saw a change in The Beatles’ appearance. It was around this time that they dropped the old image and now presented themselves with moustaches in very different clothing.
In the end, we must conclude Penny Lane is an excellent piece of music, worthy of only the highest praise. It’s peak Beatles.
The piccolo trumpet solo by David Mason is a must-mention. A great performance!


8 Blackbird
Name a more beautiful and endearing song than Blackbird, go on, we’ll wait.
Just Paul McCartney, his guitar, his voice and the tapping of his foot. 2 minutes and 18 seconds of sheer beauty. Every now and then, McCartney drops these incredible gems, where the acoustic guitar and his voice take the stage and he just floors us with his ability to craft these pretty tunes. Think Calico Skies, think Jenny Wren, think Blackbird.
The lyrics are, in classic McCartney fashion, applicable to many things and people. It’s about freedom, about waiting to be free, about wanting to fly. It’s a common enough theme, and using a bird is also not the most original take, but he pulls it off perfectly.
Blackbird is the White Album’s finest moment, and seeing how stacked that album really is, that is really saying something!


7 Tomorrow Never Knows
It’s hard to think of a more groundbreaking song in the 60s than this one. Tomorrow Never Knows broke all the rules and turned pop music on its head. Tape loops, backwards effects; the studio was their playground, and they used it to their full potential. It ends the Revolver album and heralds in a new era: the psychedelic.
It was also the first day on the job as lead sound engineer for The Beatles for a young Geoff Emerick, who miked the drums up close, a risky endeavor but now standard practice and the reasons the drums (mostly the toms) sound powerful as they are. He also took Lennon’s request to sound as the Dalai Lama on a mountain top as a proper challenge and delivered on it. The creativity on the studio floor was only slightly outmatched by the creativity of the band at times.
Tomorrow Never Knows is a one-of-a-kind song, and feels timeless, yet it fits perfectly in its timeframe. It opened a door to a whole new world.


6 Eleanor Rigby
Eleanor Rigby is arguably Paul McCartney’s greatest lyrical achievement. It tells us parts of a story, and most lines raise more questions than they answer. It’s poetry, pure and simple.
Eleanor Rigby was the first pop song to feature no pop instruments (no drums, guitar, bass…), just a string section and some very talented singers (The Beatles, obviously), with the inevitable George Martin doing the string arrangement. This song, maybe more than any other, feels like a true work of art rather than a pop song. It has something very special.
Much could be written about this song. In fact, much HAS been written about this particular tune. But in this case we’d much rather let the music speak for itself. Put on Revolver (or just the single), close your eyes and listen. Eleanor Rigby has much to say.


5 You Never Give Me Your Money
The first track of the Abbey Road medley is immediately the best one as well. You Never Give Me Your Money is sort of a medley on its own as well. Mainly written by Paul McCartney, it tells the story of the goings on at the time at Apple, the corporation McCartney and Lennon set up but now being run by Allen Klein, to great dismay of McCartney.
The song is a masterclass in songwriting with changing tempos, incredible melodies, killer bass parts, amazing harmonies, all wrapped up in an excellent production.
It’s a complex song and a perfect showcase for McCartney’s ability to write these suite-like songs. Writing a medley as part of a greater medley, sounds like he was fully in his element.


4 Strawberry Fields Forever
Strawberry Fields Forever… Oh boy, here we go.
Going into this project, this song was a very definite contender to end up on the top spot. And it would’ve earned it, no doubt. Strawberry Fields Forever is perhaps the most Lennonesque song you could have. Meaning that sometimes he had these genius, weird, totally crazy ideas that then turned into the most amazing songs. Think I Am the Walrus. But this one tops them all, easily.
The recording as we know it is a splice. It’s two versions joined together. It took a long time to nail this song and they tried many variations. Eventually Lennon wanted the start of one version and the end of another. When things are meant to be, they tend to go just right, because when Martin was concerned about putting them together since they didn’t record with any metronome and the two recordings weren’t in the same key, miraculously it ended up being just perfect since slowing down the one version and speeding up the other made them match perfectly in key.
Few songs have held such widespread acclaim and appreciation as Strawberry Fields Forever. It was recordings like these that put them on the map as a great creative force in the music scene, and not just a very popular version of any old band.
Paired with Penny Lane as a double A-side, there is no doubt that there has never been - and never will be - a stronger single release than this.
This song is the one that gave us the biggest headache as well in this whole process and rating and ranking the songs. Usually we felt the numbers were very fair and gave a fair rating. But this one song changed it completely and made us argue for quite a while. Because of the addition of a few bass notes, we couldn’t possibly give the rating for bass more than 1 out of 5. But that brought the rating down quite a bit compared to how it’d do if it didn’t have that bass at all (in fact, it would be the n°1 song on the list) and it made it feel rather unfair. In fact, this made us rethink the whole process and, in the end, we decided to not make any exceptions for now, keep the rating as is, but one day do the list again but with an even better system.


3 Yesterday
There is probably nothing we could write about Yesterday that hasn’t been said already. It’s maybe the most famous song of the 20th century. It was certainly the most covered one. Who hasn’t heard it?
It was the first time The Beatles ever did anything like it. They were not just a rock band, but so much more than that. Yesterday is their first ballad, and it’s just McCartney on acoustic guitar and vocals, supported by a string section (which couldn’t have any tremolo, as requested by McCartney).
The song has been analysed to death, and probably played to death as well. And yet it always retains its beauty. It doesn’t grow old. Even if you’re listening to it for the hundredth time, it’s just as mesmerising as it was the first.
And to think we could’ve been writing so adoringly about ‘Scrambled Eggs’ instead of Yesterday.


2 A Day in the Life
A Day in the Life may be the ultimate Beatles song. Surely the ultimate Lennon-McCartney composition. It’s two songs tied together with an unforgettable orchestral buildup. And those two songs show us the best of the two geniuses who made The Beatles into the powerhouse that they were; the best of Lennon and McCartney. Only later did Harrison develop into the songwriter who could rival them.
A Day in the Life has just about everything going for it. It was highly experimental, the chords are all over the place, so creative! It’s catchy, it has unbelievable singing, an impressive production... You name it.
We believe a special mention has to be made of the drumming, which is out of this world. It’s Ringo at his absolute finest!
Another special mention has to be made for the ending of the song, the long sustained E major chord which seems to last forever, followed by an infinitely repeating slice in the middle groove of the record.
Creativity just oozes from this record. And this was the song to conclude Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, the biggest album release in music history. It doesn’t get any better than that.
And yet…


1 Something
Something in the way she moves… George Harrison is the author of our Beatles number one song: Something. Heralded by some as the greatest love song ever written, we won’t be arguing with that.
Something has the most beautiful lyrics for a love song, supported by powerful singing. Something has one of the most perfect guitar solos ever recorded. Something sees Paul McCartney and Ringo Starr giving it their all and creating standout parts for bass and drums. Something has an incredible chord progression with a bridge that swoops you up before throwing you into the guitar solo.
Something is George Harrison’s genius shining as bright as was ever possible. It shows us that he is one of the four Beatles. He is not below John Lennon or Paul McCartney, he is just as integral to the band as Ringo Starr. It’s the combination of these four artists that made the group into the most successful band of all time. All with their own strengths, and always there to challenge each other to do just a little better every time.
Well, George stepped up.
You know I believed. And how.
