183 Misery
Misery is one of the earliest songs to give us some real interesting lyrics. Although still basic, it's a step up from "I love you, baby" material. Appearing on their debut album, it's an often overlooked song with strong vocal performances and a small yet fitting touch from George Martin, the producer who was a big part in the Beatles' success. That descending piano lifts the song up. Misery was the first song from the Beatles to get covered, so it can also boast that feat.


181 Wild Honey Pie
Some people love Wild Honey Pie, others hate it. It's Paul doing Paul stuff. It sounds like an experimentation that could've easily ended up on McCartney I, the album, instead of the White Album, but here it is. Experimental, sure. Other than that, it's probably nobody's favorite Beatles song, and that's saying something.


180 I Should Have Known Better
A Hard Day's Night is a very strong early Beatles record, and has a consistent quality. It's a pretty damn good listen: the harmonica, a solid (albeit basic) guitar solo and more of those great Lennon vocals. If this is one of the weakest songs on A Hard Day's Night, it's a very good album indeed.


176 You Like Me Too Much
An early Harrisong, You Like Me Too Much is still a far cry from songs like While My Guitar Gently Weeps or Something, but it still offers interesting bits and pieces while remaining fun to listen to. Relatively new to songwriting, Harrison was fast growing into a great force of music!


174 Don't Bother Me
Don't Bother Me was written while Harrison was on bed rest, and we don't have to guess what his feelings were at the time. Lyrically uncharacteristic for the Beatles at the time, but foreshadowing much of Harrison's later work in tone.


171 Another Girl
Another Girl (from the Help! album) features prominent guitar work, but taking the cake on this song is the vocal performance. The harmonies are classic Beatles and remain timeless.


170 Not a Second Time
George Martin on the piano is usually a recipe for greatness. Producing this song, he inserted an instrumental break after the first part, and it works really well. It allows us to catch our breath before we go into the rest of the song. The drumming on this track is adding a lot to the song.


169 What Goes On
What Goes On, written primarily by Lennon and McCartney but credited to Lennon-McCartney-Starkey, sounds like a country song and derives most of its charm from Ringo's singing. Being backed by two of the greatest singers in popular music, Ringo still holds his own on this track and gives a great performance.


164 I Don't Want to Spoil the Party
This song seems fairly insignificant at first glance, at least that was the case for us. However, it gains momentum the more you listen to it. The lyrics are interesting, and very Lennon at the time. A rather forgotten song from a rather forgotten album, this one definitely deserves more play time!


156 Any Time at All
This song draws you in from the first snare hit. It's a fast paced song, with an amazing instrumental bridge. Harrison adds a lot to the song with his guitar solo, making it one of the most pleasing solos from their early work. Any Time at All does nothing exceptional, but it does just about everything right.


148 Tell Me Why
The harmonies that Harrison, McCartney and Lennon produce are downright magical. Even in a song that isn't particularly great or outstanding. It automatically lifts the song up.
While being a solid addition to A Hard Day's Night, this song has my least favorite line in all the Beatles' catalogue (yes, including Revolution 9). The way the three lads sing "Is there anything that I can do?" in their highest of high voices is... let's just say I'm not the biggest fan of that. Nitpicking aside, this one's an actual rocker that keeps its energy from start to finish.


120 Old Brown Shoe
Many people rate this Harrisong rather highly. And for the longest time, we didn't quite see why. But listening very closely has revealed much more there than we gave it credit for. The biggest surprise was the bassline. What a banger from McCartney! There's plenty more elements that make this a great Harrison track; from the very solid solo to the instrumentation. There is much more than meets the eye.
This song sparked one of our biggest disagreements during the whole process as well. The effect put onto the vocal was very well received by one, and not so much by the other.


101 Think for Yourself
Think for Yourself is the second track on Rubber Soul written by George Harrison. While the song has great singing, good lyrics and excellent drumming, it's the bass that gives this particular song an enormous amount of momentum. It even has two bass tracks! And both just completely knock it out of the park. Quite remarkably, it was the first time a bass was put through a fuzzbox for recording purposes.
Another banger from the Rubber Soul album. It's amazing how much quality is packed in just over 35 minutes.


95 And Your Bird Can Sing
On the Revolver album, we have And Your Bird Can Sing. Well, so can the Beatles, and very well for that matter! The lead vocals by Lennon are on point, the harmony vocals are just to die for, and offset the rough guitar tone perfectly.
Harrison's guitar solo gets widely praised, and rightly so.
But for us, the vocal harmonies are mostly what leaves us speechless after the umpteenth listen.


91 Here, There and Everywhere
Here, There and Everywhere is a sweet, hauntingly beautiful track written and sung by Paul McCartney. Both the lead and the backing vocals shine on this song. A standout track on the Revolver album for sure.
Even Lennon, (in)famous for trashtalking Beatles songs in the 70s, didn't have anything bad to say about this one. And even if he wanted to, how could he? There is nothing bad to say about it! Sure, some aspects are a bit simple (like the bass, the drums), but the song doesn't feel lacking at all. The (clever) lyrics, the sweet singing and the great playing are more than enough to hook you from the start.


81 Good Night
Good Night is the final track on the White Album and was written by John Lennon. Worried about his reputation as a rocker, Lennon wanted Ringo to sing the song. No recording remains (as far as we know) of Lennon singing the song, but those who heard him sing it say he actually sang it quite beautifully. However, we don't want to take anything away from Ringo's singing performance here. Ringo gives one of his best singing performances to date, and his timbre suits the song very well.
However, the instrumentation takes the cake here. Arranged by George Martin, the orchestral backing brings Lennon's lullaby fully to life.


57 Nowhere Man
Nowhere Man is mainly written by Lennon, and gives us valuable insight through his striking lyrics. Compared to early Beatles lyrics, songs like Nowhere Man bring so much more to the table. But putting more into the lyrics doesn't mean less goes into the instrumental part of the song, no no. If you listen closely, you'll hear an exceptional performance by McCartney on the bass, and unbelievable vocal performances across the board.
A true masterpiece from a band in top form on Rubber Soul.


4 Strawberry Fields Forever
Strawberry Fields Forever... Oh boy, here we go.
Going into this project, this song was a very definite contender to end up on the top spot. And it would've earned it, no doubt. Strawberry Fields Forever is perhaps the most Lennonesque song you could have. Meaning that sometimes he had these genius, weird, totally crazy ideas that then turned into the most amazing songs. Think I Am the Walrus. But this one tops them all, easily.
The recording as we know it is a splice. It's two versions joined together. It took a long time to nail this song and they tried many variations. Eventually Lennon wanted the start of one version and the end of another. When things are meant to be, they tend to go just right, because when Martin was concerned about putting them together since they didn't record with any metronome and the two recordings weren't in the same key, miraculously it ended up being just perfect since slowing down the one version and speeding up the other made them match perfectly in key.
Few songs have held such widespread acclaim and appreciation as Strawberry Fields Forever. It was recordings like these that put them on the map as a great creative force in the music scene, and not just a very popular version of any old band.
Paired with Penny Lane as a double A-side, there is no doubt that there has never been - and never will be - a stronger single release than this.


2 A Day in the Life
A Day in the Life may be the ultimate Beatles song. Surely the ultimate Lennon-McCartney composition. It's two songs tied together with an unforgettable orchestral buildup. And those two songs show us the best of the two geniuses who made the Beatles into the powerhouse that they were; the best of Lennon and McCartney. Only later did Harrison develop into the songwriter who could rival them.
A Day in the Life has just about everything going for it. It was highly experimental, the chords are all over the place, so creative! It's catchy, it has unbelievable singing, an impressive production... You name it.
We believe a special mention has to be made of the drumming, which is out of this world. It's Ringo at his absolute finest!
Another special mention has to be made for the ending of the song, the long sustained E major chord which seems to last forever, followed by an infinitely repeating slice in the middle groove of the record.
Creativity just oozes from this record. And this was the song to conclude Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, the biggest album release in music history. It doesn't get any better than that.
